Obese Julia Jones dreams of marrying Napoleon Dynamite, but even in her dreams, she is rejected. Writing in her diary, she thinks she will never find her true love. Julia goes outside and dances to impress men on the streets, but is unsuccessful.

At Julia's father Frank's Greek diner, she meets and is instantly attracted to Grant Funkyerdoder. Frank barks an order at her and when she turns to respond she accidentally hits Grant over the head with a coffee pot, knocking him to the floor. She turns around, finding his table suddenly empty and figures he ran away.

Julia seeks help from the love therapist Hitch, who initially rejects her but finally agrees, taking her to a garage where she gets "pimped out" and made slimmer. She earns a spot on a reality television dating show called ''The Extreme Bachelor: Desperate Edition'', where the bachelor turns out to be Grant. Host Ty Andrews introduces him, who greets all the women and is asked to eliminate the losers, which he does by shooting them one by one.

As the last woman standing, Julia is rewarded with dinner for two at "A Restaurant". After their meal, Julia and Grant venture to her apartment, where they have sex. Later, Grant takes Julia to Tiffany & Co., where the salespeople reveal that she may pick whatever she wants. He then declares he loves her and proposes, and she happily accepts. The couple then meets with Grant's parents, Bernie and Roz, who recommend a wedding planner, after which Roz reveals that Grant lost his virginity to the housekeeper, Eduardo.

Julia and Grant visit the overzealous wedding planner, Jell-O. Julia stresses to her that she wants a traditional wedding but Jell-O insists on a restaurant called Taco Butt, which they decline. Jell-O's mood changes, angrily telling them it's the best she can do on short notice. Grant tries to ease the awkward situation by telling them he has already chosen a best man. Excitedly, Jell-O reveals that she will also be the wedding entertainment by slamming her desk over with her massive butt and aggressively ripping off her clothes to reveal a gold spandex bra and tights. The couple are shocked as she shows off her provocative dance moves, then scream in fear as she backs up towards them and joyfully smothers them with her butt, getting even for declining her earlier offer.

Grant introduces Julia to his best man, Andy, his ex-fiancée, who seemingly harbors no resentment towards Julia for marrying Grant, even helping Julia shop for her wedding dress. At the bridal shop, Julia hits her head on a power box and suddenly can read people's thoughts. Reading Andy's mind, she realises Andy wants to get back together with Grant and plans to split them up. The women fight each other, ''Kill Bill''-style.

On the wedding day Julia arrives late, then witnesses Grant and Andy sharing a kiss (but Julia is unaware that Grant tried to reject her), leaving Julia heartbroken. Unable to forgive Grant, she agrees to marry Nicky.

Once at the altar with Nicky, Julia is regretting it, having flashbacks about her and Grant. Frank objects to the union, realizing he was wrong about Grant who liked her even before the makeover. He persuades her to go after Grant who is revealed to have waited for months. Julia hurries to meet him as he is leaving, while shoving aside Andy who was pursuing him too.

Julia arrives too late and sees Grant on the streets before she falls off the roof, though Grant conveniently catches her. They get back together and get married, with Hitch officiating and now dating Jell-O. Andy and Nicky meet at the wedding and fall in love. Meanwhile, Grant and Julia leave in a horse and carriage. Roz gifts her a vaginal thermometer which apparently has been in their family for generations and is regarded as good luck when kept unwashed.

On their honeymoon, Grant and Julia go to Skull Island and film a woman, Anne, tied between two poles. After King Kong rips off her dress and gropes her, she says "I like hairy boys", so King Kong flattens her.

