Two years after the events of the first film, Jon Arbuckle plans to propose to his girlfriend, veterinarian Dr. Elizabeth "Liz" Wilson, who is going on a business trip to London. Jon follows Liz to the United Kingdom as a surprise; after escaping from a kennel, Jon's two pets, Garfield and Odie, sneak into Jon's luggage and join him on the trip. Garfield and Odie break out of the hotel room due to boredom, and subsequently get lost in the streets of London.

Meanwhile, at Carlyle Castle in the English countryside, the late Lady Eleanor Carlyle's will is read by the solicitors, Mr. Hobbs, Mr. Greene and Mrs. Whitney. She bequeaths Carlyle Castle to Prince XII, her beloved cat who lives a strong life of luxury, and bears a strong resemblance to Garfield. This enrages the Lady's greedy nephew, Lord Manfred Dargis, who will now only inherit the grand estate once Prince passes away. Lord Dargis traps Prince in a picnic basket and throws him into the river. Jon finds Prince climbing out of a drain and takes him to the hotel after mistaking him for Garfield, while Prince's butler, Smithee, finds Garfield in the street and takes him to Carlyle Castle after mistaking him for Prince.

In the grand estate, Garfield receives a great deal of special treatment, including a butler and a group of four-legged followers, lead by Prince's loyal bulldog servant, Winston. Winston convinces the animals to tolerate and protect Garfield in order to prevent Lord Dargis from getting his hands on the estate, which he plans to turn into a resort by demolishing the area and slaughtering the animals. With Garfield's presence, Dargis thinks Prince has returned and fears that the solicitors will not sign the estate over for him. He makes many attempts to kill Garfield, but fails every time due to the animals interfering. Garfield befriends the animals and teaches them how to make lasagna while Prince learns how to be an ordinary pet. Despite both of them enjoying their new lifestyles, they soon begin to miss their old lives, Garfield especially after overhearing the animals complaining about his slobby and selfish attitude for a royal cat.

Eventually, Garfield and Prince meet each other face to face after both attempt to return to their old lives. Garfield, having understood what is at stake for Prince and his subjects, convinces them to help him defeat Dargis. Jon and Odie discover the mix-up and go to the castle, which Liz is coincidentally visiting. 

Garfield and Prince taunt Dargis, whose plan is exposed, and the two cats are seen by the solicitors. Dargis barges in, holding a blunderbuss and threatening the solicitors if they do not sign the estate over for him while also taking Liz hostage. Jon attempts to force Dargis to release Liz by holding a crossbow at him, only for Dargis to threaten to kill Jon for getting involved in the first place. Garfield and Prince, with the help of Odie, save the day while Smithee alerts the authorities and Dargis is arrested for his crimes. Garfield, who had been trying to stop Jon from proposing to Liz, has a change of heart: he helps Jon propose to Liz, and she accepts.

