Andrea "Andy" Sachs is an aspiring journalist newly graduated from Northwestern University. Despite her ridicule of the fashion industry, she lands a job as junior personal assistant to Miranda Priestly, the editor-in-chief of ''Runway'' magazine, a job that "millions of girls would kill for." Andy plans to put up with Miranda's excessive demands and humiliating treatment for one year in the hopes of getting a job as a reporter or writer somewhere else.

Andy initially fumbles with her job and fits in poorly with her gossipy, fashion-forward co-workers, especially Miranda's senior assistant, Emily Charlton. After a dress trial meeting in which Miranda berates her in front of the entire team, Andy approaches art director Nigel to help her learn the ropes in the world of fashion. She begins to dress stylishly and makes an effort to accommodate all of Miranda's whims and fancies, which strains her relationship with her boyfriend Nate, who is frustrated that she is always at Miranda's beck and call.

Noticing Andy's changed appearance and commitment, Miranda begins to give her more responsibility and complicated tasks to handle. Slowly but surely, Andy becomes more glamorous and absorbs the ''Runway'' philosophy. Andy gradually outperforms Emily, who is consumed with the thought of attending Paris Fashion Week as Miranda's assistant and, in preparation for the event, attempts extreme diets that are dangerous to her health. When Emily is too unwell to remember important details about the guests at a charity benefit, Andy steps in to save Miranda from embarrassment and is rewarded by being asked to replace Emily as Miranda's assistant at the Paris Fashion Week. When Andy calls Emily to inform her, the latter is hit by a car. Andy relays the news to Emily while she is recovering in the hospital, and she is furious. Nate is angered that Andy has become what she once ridiculed, and they break up.

In Paris, Andy learns from Miranda about her impending divorce. Later that night, Nigel tells Andy that he has accepted a job as creative director with rising designer James Holt. Andy spends the night with an attractive writer, Christian Thompson, who tells her that Miranda is to be replaced by Jacqueline Follet as editor of ''Runway''. Andy attempts to warn her, but Miranda sends her away.

At a luncheon later that day, Miranda announces Jacqueline as the new creative director to Holt, leaving Andy and Nigel stunned. Later, Miranda explains to Andy that she already knew of the plot to replace her and sacrificed Nigel to keep her own job. Andy is repulsed, but Miranda points out that Andy did the same to Emily by agreeing to go to Paris. When they arrive at their destination, Andy exits the car without a word and returns to New York.

Sometime later, Andy meets up with Nate, who tells her he has a new job as a sous-chef in Boston, and they agree to continue to see each other. The same day, Andy is interviewed and accepted to work at a major New York publication company. The editor recounts how he called ''Runway'' for a reference, and was informed by Miranda that, while Andy was the biggest disappointment she ever had as an assistant, he would be an idiot not to hire her. Andy then calls Emily and reconciles with her by offering her the clothes she obtained in Paris. While passing the ''Runway'' office building, Andy makes eye contact with Miranda and waves at her. Miranda does not acknowledge her, but smiles to herself once she is seated in her car.

