The year is 1986, and 30-year old Pripyat firefighter Alexey Karpushin has begun to reconnect with a former lover, local hairdresser Olga Savostina.  Olga reveals to him that he is the father of her 10-year-old son. Their growing romance falters when Alexey fails to turn up for a picnic with Olga and their son, and Olga tells him never to visit again. Alexey applies to be reassigned to Kyiv for a fresh start and is just about to leave when the explosion at the nearby Chernobyl power plant occurs, and instead, he boards a fire truck heading to reactor number 4.

Alexey survives the radiation exposure in the initial fight to control the fire.  As the scale of the disaster becomes apparent, the potential for an even greater catastrophe is identified – a secondary steam explosion of a large water reservoir, which lies beneath the melting reactor, and that would eject enormous quantities of radioactive core material into the upper atmosphere, placing the European continent in danger.  Alexey has prior experience of conducting fire inspections on the corridors that lie underneath nuclear reactors, however, he is reluctant to sign up for what will likely be a suicide mission to manually drain the water reservoir before the reactor collapses into it.  Alexey then learns that his son is now suffering from radiation exposure and is at risk of dying.  He agrees to join the team on the basis that his son will be sent to Switzerland for radiation treatment.

After an unsuccessful first attempt, Alexey is convinced by his teammate Valera to make a second attempt to drain the water reservoir.  During the ultimately successful second attempt, Valera is trapped but cuts the connecting rig to enable Alexey to escape without him.  However, Alexey refuses to abandon Valera, and as the water is drained, the rescuers find Alexey in a heavily irradiated state.  He is reunited with Olga in the hospital who embraces him before he dies.  Three months later, his son returns after successful treatment in Switzerland.

