Five dogs and their owners, trainers and handlers travel to Philadelphia to compete in the Mayflower Kennel Club Dog Show.

Gerry and Cookie Fleck are a middle-class couple from Florida who arrive at the Taft Hotel with their Norwich terrier Winky. After having forgotten to pay their credit card bill and short of cash, they are forced to sleep in the hotel's storage room. While traveling to the show, they encounter several of Cookie’s former lovers who try to seduce her again, much to Gerry's chagrin.

Meg and Hamilton Swan, a stereotypical yuppie couple from a Chicago suburb, arrive with their weimaraner Beatrice. Their constant doting and neurotic behavior toward Beatrice—for example, taking her to a psychotherapist after she sees them having sex in a position they learned from the ''Kama Sutra''—confuses and upsets her.

Harlan Pepper, the affable Southern owner of a fishing goods store and an aspiring ventriloquist, arrives with his bloodhound Hubert. The Pepper family has raised a variety of hounds for generations; Harlan continues the tradition by raising bloodhounds.

Sherri Ann Cabot is the buxom, overly-made-up trophy wife of her elderly sugar daddy Leslie Ward Cabot. A former two-time winner of the show, Sherri Ann receives help with her standard poodle Rhapsody in White, also known as Butch, from her taskmaster trainer Christy Cummings. An extremely competitive butch lesbian, Christy rigorously trains Butch for the show and rejects Sherri Ann's offers of a beauty makeover. Leslie is oblivious to Christy and Sherri Ann's romantic involvement, as well as everything else happening around him.

Scott Donlan and Stefan Vanderhoof are a campy gay couple who take great pride in their Shih Tzu Miss Agnes and are confident that she will win the competition. They share a love of old movies and enjoy making fun of Christy Cummings, but are friendly to the other competitors, especially the Flecks.

The dog show is hosted by dog expert Trevor Beckwith and oblivious "color" commentator Buck Laughlin, whose inane banter is completely lost on Beckwith. During the first round, Beatrice is disqualified when she becomes aggressive and Hamilton cannot control her, which the Swans chalk up to a dog toy of Beatrice's that they had lost prior to the show. The other four dogs advance to the final round. Just before the finals, Cookie dislocates her knee and insists that Gerry take over for her despite his two left feet (the result of a birth defect). Though Gerry is nervous, Winky ultimately takes Best in Show.

After the competition, Gerry and Cookie return home to Florida and enjoy brief fame there. While in a studio recording novelty songs about terriers, they discover that the recording engineer is yet another of Cookie's ex-lovers, to Gerry's unending frustration. Christy and Sherri Ann, now openly in a relationship (Leslie's fate is unclear), publish ''American Bitch'', a magazine for lesbian owners of purebred dogs. After spending weeks on a kibbutz, Harlan fulfills his dream of being a ventriloquist, entertaining sparse crowds with a honky tonk song-and-dance number. Stefan and Scott design a calendar featuring Shih Tzu dogs in costume appearing in scenes from classic films such as ''Casablanca'' and ''Gone with the Wind''. Meg and Hamilton are visibly happier together after replacing Beatrice with a pug named Kipper, whom they claim enjoys watching them make love.

