Violet Sanford leaves her hometown of South Amboy, New Jersey, her father Bill, and her best friend Gloria, to pursue her dreams of becoming a songwriter in nearby New York City. Violet tries multiple times to get her demo tape noticed by the recording studios but is unsuccessful. One night, she tries to get herself noticed by a music industry scout. The bartender jokingly points out Kevin O'Donnell, making her believe that he is the bar manager. When she discovers the joke, Violet feels hurt because she thinks Kevin was trying to make her look foolish.

With only a few dollars left in her pocket after her apartment is burglarized, she goes to an all-night diner and notices three girls, Cammie, Rachel, and Zoe, flaunting the hundreds of dollars in tips they earned. After inquiring, she finds out that they work at a trendy bar named Coyote Ugly.

Violet finds her way to the bar and convinces the bar owner Lil to give her an audition. Violet's first audition does not go well. After Violet breaks up a fight between two customers, Lil gives her a second audition. At her second audition, Violet douses the fire warden in water which costs Lil $250. However, Lil decides she can work at the bar if she can make up $250 in one night. Kevin turns up at the bar and Violet auctions him off to another woman at the bar to earn the money. Kevin tells Violet that she owes him, so Violet agrees to go on four dates with him. The two begin a relationship.

Kevin commits himself to help Violet overcome her stage fright, which she is informed she will have to do to have her songs heard. Violet tells Kevin she inherited her stage fright from her now-deceased mother, who also moved to New York in her youth to pursue her dreams of singing. Violet's stage fright mostly extends to singing her original pieces as she can sing in the bar doing karaoke to help Cammie and Rachel break up a fight between customers.

One night, her father Bill comes to see her at work after a photo of her on the bar appears in the paper. When he arrives, she is dancing on the bar counter with the other bartenders pouring pitchers of water over her. He is angry about her job and refuses to talk to her when she calls him shortly after. She keeps the job despite her father's wishes, but shortly thereafter gets fired when Kevin gets into a fight at the bar. She and Kevin then break up.

With her dreams not working and her job at the bar lost, Violet goes to New Jersey for Gloria's wedding. That night, Bill gets hit by a car and is seriously injured which almost prompts Violet to move back to South Amboy. However, Bill convinces her not to give up while telling her the truth: her mother did not have a problem with stage fright and quit singing because of Bill.

Back in New York, Lil visits Violet at a restaurant where she is now working and the two make amends. Violet finishes a new song and later performs it at an open mic night at the Bowery Ballroom. After a difficult start, she gets help from Kevin and can sing. The Coyotes, Bill, and Gloria are also there for moral support. The performance leads to a deal with a record label.

3 months later at Coyote Ugly, LeAnn Rimes had recorded Violet's song and sings the song on the bar as Violet joins in. After procuring for Kevin a copy of ''The Amazing Spider-Man'' #129 which Punisher debuted in and allowing Bill to win an auction, Violet kisses Kevin celebrating her dream coming true.

