Dr. Sullivan 'Sully'  Travis (aka "Dr. T.") is a wealthy Dallas gynecologist for some of the wealthiest ladies in Texas who finds his life beginning to fall apart starting when his wife, Kate, suffers from 'Hestia Complex', a rare type of stigmatization syndrome of wealthy women, receding into a strange state and, after she disrobes in a shopping mall fountain while shopping for their daughter's wedding registry at Tiffany's, is committed to the state mental hospital. When Dr. T visits  Kate, she rebuffs his kisses as improper and he sees her old psyche cannot be brought back to now by his affection. Dr. T's daughter, Dee Dee, a student at Southern Methodist University and alternate for the Dallas Cowboys Cheerleaders, is planning to go through with her approaching wedding despite the secret that she is romantically involved with Marilyn, her former college friend in Houston and the maid of honor. Dr. T's other daughter, Connie, is a conspiracy theorist and eventually reveals to her father that Dee Dee and Marilyn are lovers.

While Marilyn is on his examining table for the first time, she surmises her condition is caused by the stress of being the maid of honor for her friend Dee Dee. Dr. T realizes she is Dee Dee's lover and becomes embarrassed mid-examination, asking the nurse to finish.

Dr. T's loyal secretary Carolyn has romantic feelings for him, which are not mutual: in a farcical scene at the workday end, she locks the office door and gives him a shoulder-massage from behind his chair, secretly disrobing while emphasizing his need for a loving wife. Refreshed but unaware of her intentions, he goes to the coat closet, turns and finds she has vanished. From under the desk, she says he never empties his trash baskets. Approaching the desk he glimpses her state of undress and quickly leaves.

Meanwhile, Dr. T's alcoholic sister-in-law, Peggy, unintentionally meddles in every situation she stumbles into. She is currently divorced and has moved into his house with her three daughters.

At his golf club, Bree, a golf pro, gets accidentally soaked by the automatic sprinklers and he offers a towel and his dry golf cart and they decide to play the round together.  Accepting his offer for dinner, she says she knows a better place than his suggested restaurant, next they're taking grocery bags into her condo. She moves quickly and gracefully turning on the stereo music by Lyle Lovett, the grill on the balcony, putting steak on, going upstairs, into one room, then walking nude across the balcony to the shower. After dinner, she takes a bottle of wine upstairs, briefly hesitating he follows her and they become lovers. She provides friendship and comfort in his difficult office and personal life.

As Dee Dee's wedding begins the skies are darkening and thunder increasing. As the procession is blown by increasing wind, Dee Dee bypasses her groom, embraces and kisses Marilyn and the skies open up sending all the guests for shelter.  Inspired, Dr. T drives his open top convertible to Bree's house where he asks her to marry and run away with him. He offers to fulfill her every need and she asks why she would want that (this is what caused Kate's syndrome according to her psychologist). She says she has made other plans. Dr. T. asks if she is with Harlan, one of his golfing/hunting buddies, She replies: “I’m not with anybody.” Distraught, Dr. T. drives off into the storm and into a tornado as it crosses his path and is lifted into the air, tumbles in debris; the scene fades to the morning after. The camera view pans to reveal distant mountains surrounding a vast desert flat land.  His nearby car is found by three Mexican people. A little girl in a white dress with a veil sees the doctor badge on the front grill of the car Exclaiming “Dr!”. They find & lead him, still dazed, to a circle of seven tiny houses where a girl is in labor. Galvanized by the sight, he immediately washes his hands, drops his wedding ring into the basin, takes charge and delivers the baby, holding it and rejoices “it’s a boy!”

