Greg Focker, a Jewish American nurse living in Chicago, intends to propose to his girlfriend, Pam Byrnes, but his plan is disrupted when they are invited to the wedding of Pam's sister, Debbie, at their parents' house on Long Island. Greg decides to impress Pam's parents first and propose to her in front of her family, but this plan is put on hold when the airline company loses his luggage which contains the engagement ring.

At the Byrnes's house, Greg meets Pam's father Jack, her mother Dina, and their beloved cat Jinx. Despite maintaining a friendly demeanor towards Greg, Jack is immediately suspicious of him and is critical of his choice of career as a nurse and anything else he sees as a difference between Greg and the Byrnes family. Greg attempts to impress Jack, with little success, and he becomes even more uncomfortable after he receives an impromptu lie detector test from Jack and later learns from Pam that Jack is a retired CIA operative who interrogated double agents.

Meeting the rest of Pam's family and friends, Greg still feels like an outsider. Despite efforts to impress her family, his inadvertent actions make him an easy target for ridicule. Greg unintentionally gives Debbie a broken nose and a black eye during a pool volleyball game, uses a malfunctioning toilet which floods the backyard with sewage, spills Jack's mother's ashes while opening a champagne bottle, and sets the wedding altar on fire. Several misunderstandings cause Jack to believe Greg is a marijuana user after Pam's weed-using brother, Denny, inadvertently frames him. Later, Greg loses Jinx and replaces him with a near-identical stray, whose tail he spray-paints and who makes a mess of the house, including destroying Debbie's wedding dress (though the real Jinx is later found). By now, the entire Byrnes family, including Pam, agrees that Greg should leave Long Island, while Jack accuses Greg of lying about being a nurse and taking the Medical College Admission Test because his CIA contacts could not find any record of a "Gregory" Focker. Desperate to save himself, Greg reveals he has seen Jack engaging in some secret activity with some shady characters, and that Jack is planning a covert mission after the wedding, only for Jack to angrily reveal that the mission was a surprise honeymoon for Debbie and her fiancé Bob.

Greg's missing luggage arrives, revealing his real first name as Gaylord, much to the amusement of the Byrnes and Banks family. Greg drives angrily and sadly to the airport preparing to return to Chicago but is detained by airport security for insisting that his luggage stays with him rather than be checked. Back at the Byrnes's house, Jack learns from a disappointed Pam that he could find no record of Greg from the CIA because his real name is Gaylord, and is presented with copies of Greg's transcripts his parents faxed her, proving that Greg passed the Medical College Admission Test. Despite this, Jack still states his belief that Greg is an unsuitable husband for Pam because of his mistakes and lies, but Dina lectures him over his consistent picking apart of any man Pam brings home (and that he didn't even like Pam's previous fiancé, Kevin, until after they broke up).

After hearing Pam make a heartfelt phone call to Greg to apologize for not sticking up for him earlier, Jack realizes that Pam truly loves Greg. He rushes to the airport, convinces airport security to release Greg, and brings him back to the Byrnes's house. Jack performs a lie detector test on Greg, to tell the truth about the weekend and loving Pam, in the process Greg admitting that he no longer wishes to marry Pam out of fear of being Jack's son-in-law. Jack apologizes for his behaviour and promises to be more accepting, leading Jack to propose to Greg to be his son-in-law. As Greg changes his mind and proposes to Pam, Jack and Dina listen in from another room, agreeing that they should now meet Greg's parents despite their worries about doing so. After Debbie's wedding, Jack views footage of Greg recorded by hidden cameras that he had placed strategically around the house, in which Greg calls Jack a "psycho" and mocks him, and also exposes Denny as the true marijuana user.

