After finding out Deebo escaped prison to get revenge on Craig, Willie decides it would be safer for Craig to move to Rancho Cucamonga to live with his uncle Elroy and cousin Day-Day, who just won the lottery. Day-Day shows Craig around the house and neighborhood. Day-Day explains to Craig that after winning the lottery, all of the taxes and fees that were taken out only left them enough to buy their house and Day-Day's car. A notice arrives informing them that their house could face repossession.

Later, Craig visits Day-Day at work, a record shop. Day-Day hides from his girlfriend D'Wana and her sister Baby D who constantly stalk and harass him saying that he is the baby's father. Day-Day's boss Pinky arrives at the store finding it locked. While Day-Day and his co-worker Roach are in the back, a scuffle between Craig and Pinky ensues in which Pinky mistakes him for a robber, while Craig tries to explain that he is Day-Day’s cousin. Pinky then fires Day-Day and Roach in anger.

Craig, Day-Day, and Roach try to figure out how to keep the house. Craig remembers seeing their neighbors, a trio of gang member brothers known as "the Jokers", who live with their sister Karla carrying a hydraulic pump. Suspecting that it may be hiding cash, Craig convinces Day-Day and Roach to help him get inside the Jokers' house and steal the pump.

Later that night, Roach drugs the Jokers' Bull Terrier Chico with Cannabis to keep him distracted while Craig sneaks into the Jokers' house. Craig locates the pump finding cash is hidden inside and taking some for himself. He escapes out of a window. Panicking after the eldest Joker closes the window (the way Craig got into the house), Day-Day and Roach knock on the Jokers' door as a diversion for Craig to escape. After discovering the money from the pump is missing, The Jokers take Day-Day and Roach hostage and tie them up with duct tape.

Willie returns to the neighborhood while unknowingly hauling Deebo and his brother Tyrone in his truck, who snuck in earlier. Craig returns to Elroy's house only to find Willie and Elroy waiting for him. Craig, Willie, and Elroy decide to head the Jokers' house to rescue Day Day and Roach with Elroy's girlfriend Suga saying she will call the police if they aren’t back in ten minutes.

The trio sneaks into the Jokers' backyard. Joker sends Baby Joker and Lil' Joker to get a chainsaw from the toolshed. Willie knocks Baby Joker with a 2x4 and Elroy tackles Lil' Joker. Willie ties the younger Jokers up and puts them in the shed.

Joker goes to look for his brothers and finds Elroy on the ground due to his back giving out after tackling Lil' Joker. Craig then engages him in a fight. As Craig and Joker fight, Day-Day and Roach, while bound and gagged, attempt to escape but fail until Elroy comes and unties Day-Day and Roach. Day-Day and Roach run to Craig’s aid but Joker gains the upper hand when he picks up an AK-47. Soon Deebo and Tyrone appears and knocks Joker out. Armed with Joker’s rifle, Deebo prepares to shoot but not before he is bitten by Chico. The police arrive and arrest the Joker brothers, Deebo, and Tyrone. Craig leaves with the Jokers' pump.

After witnessing D’Wana and Baby D toss a brick at Day-Day’s BMW, Craig returns home with his dad.

