In 1750, a man rescued from the ocean is brought to King Ferdinand of Spain, where he claims to have sailed with Ponce de León, who died 200 years earlier searching for the Fountain of Youth. Years after Captain Jack Sparrow lost the ''Black Pearl'' to Hector Barbossa and acquired Sao Feng's map to find the Fountain,{{refn|name=Timeline|group=N|As depicted in ''Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End'' (2007). ''Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales'' (2017) takes place at least 19 years after ''At World's End'' as well as in the year 1751, therefore, the same can be presumed about ''On Stranger Tides''.}} Jack rescues his first mate, Joshamee Gibbs, from execution in London, only to get captured. Gibbs takes Jack's map, while Jack himself is brought before King George II, who wants him to guide an expedition to the Fountain before King Ferdinand's Spanish Armada can locate it. Barbossa, now sporting a peg leg and having lost the ''Pearl'', joins the expedition as a privateer. Jack escapes, leading Barbossa to later recruit Gibbs, who memorizes Jack's map before burning it, and they set sail aboard the HMS ''Providence''.

Captain Teague, Jack's father, tells Sparrow that the Profane Ritual is required to use the Fountain. Jack also hears of another Jack Sparrow recruiting a crew. The impostor is Angelica, Jack's former lover and daughter of Blackbeard, who shanghais Jack into service aboard the ''Queen Anne's Revenge''. Amongst the crew are zombie officers and Philip Swift, a captured missionary. Blackbeard practices voodoo magic as a brujo<ref name="Blackbeard Critical">[http://www.wordplayer.com/forums/scriptsarc16/index.cgi?read=190749 Critical analysis - SCRIPTS Message Board - Wordplayer.com]</ref> and wants to find the Fountain to avoid a prophesied death by a one-legged man. Although Jack incites the human crew to mutiny against the zombies, Blackbeard subdues the mutineers with a sword that allows him to control ships. Jack learns from Angelica that the ritual for the Fountain requires a mermaid's tear and two silver chalices located on Ponce de León's ship, the ''Santiago''. Both chalices get water from the Fountain, and the person who drinks the water with the tear gets all the years of life from the other. Angelica also shows Jack Blackbeard's collection of captured, miniaturized ships in bottles, including the ''Black Pearl''.

The ''Revenge'' sails to Whitecap Bay, where Blackbeard's crew captures the mermaid Syrena. Barbossa, Gibbs, and some of the British crew continue on foot after the ''Providence'' is attacked by mermaids. Syrena's tail becomes legs after being out of water; seeing that she cannot walk, Philip offers to carry Syrena. After their newfound love is used to extract the mermaid's tear, Syrena is left to die. Blackbeard sends Jack to get the chalices, taking the latter's magic compass. Jack and Barbossa meet on the ''Santiago'', but find the chalices have been taken by the Spanish. Before retrieving the chalices, Barbossa reveals his true agenda: a desire for revenge against Blackbeard, detailing the attack on the ''Black Pearl'', which Barbossa truly believes to be sunk,{{efn|Screenwriter Terry Rossio released his unproduced screenplay for ''Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales'' (2017), which includes additional information in extensive footnotes.<ref name="Terry Rossio Dead Men Tell No Tales">[http://www.wordplayer.com/archives/PIRATES5.cover.html PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN: DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES by Terry Rossio - Wordplayer.com]</ref> Pertaining to ''On Stranger Tides'', Rossio notes that Barbossa does not know that the ''Black Pearl'' in a bottle in the fourth film, though Barbossa later shows knowledge in the fifth film.}} which led to cutting off his leg via self-amputation. Jack returns to Blackbeard, giving him the chalices in exchange for Jack's compass, which Jack sends Gibbs off with.

All parties locate the Fountain of Youth, which leads to a battle, in which Barbossa stabs Blackbeard with a poisoned sword. Angelica cuts her hand on the poisoned blade. The Spanish throw the chalices into a deep pool and destroy the Fountain, believing it as an abomination against God. In the chaos, Philip frees Syrena, who gives the chalices to Jack. Filling the chalices with the remaining drops of water from the Fountain, adding Syrena's tear, Jack tricks Blackbeard into drinking the chalice lacking the tear. Angelica is healed, whilst Blackbeard dies. Syrena returns to an injured Philip and, after she forgives him, they kiss and return underwater.{{efn|Both Philip and Syrena return alive and well in Terry Rossio's unproduced screenplay for ''Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales'' (2017),<ref name="Terry Rossio Dead Men Tell No Tales"/> though both characters don't return in the fifth film.}}

Barbossa claims Blackbeard's ship, crew, and sword for his own, and returns to a life of piracy. Meanwhile, Jack maroons Angelica on a cay, unsure if he can trust her. Jack reunites with Gibbs, who uses the compass to locate the ''Revenge'' and retrieve the ''Black Pearl'' in a bottle. As they figure out how to get the ''Pearl'' out, Jack tells Gibbs he's determined to continue living the pirate's life. In a post-credits scene, a voodoo doll of Jack created by Blackbeard washes ashore to Angelica, who smiles.


