Valerie lives with her parents, Cesaire and Suzette, and older sister Lucie in the village of Daggerhorn, on the edge of a forest plagued by a werewolf. She is in love with the woodcutter and childhood friend Peter, but her parents arrange for her to marry Henry, son of the wealthy blacksmith Adrien Lazar. Valerie and Peter plan to elope, only to learn the Wolf has broken its truce not to prey on the townspeople and murdered Lucie.

The preacher Father Auguste calls upon the famous witch hunter Father Solomon for help, but the townspeople decide to venture into the Wolf's lair. As the village celebrates, Father Solomon declares that the slain animal is a common grey wolf, as the true werewolf would have reverted to human form. Father Solomon's men isolate Daggerhorn and investigate the villagers to find out the Wolf's identity. That night, the Wolf attacks, and the townspeople shelter in the church while Valerie and her friend Roxanne search for Roxanne's autistic brother, Claude. Cornered by the beast, Valerie discovers she is able to understand the Wolf, who threatens to kill Roxanne and destroy the village if Valerie does not leave with him. The Wolf escapes, vowing to return for Valerie's decision.

The next day, Claude is captured and killed by Father Solomon's men for supposedly practicing black magic. Roxanne reveals that Valerie is able to communicate with the Wolf. Believing Valerie is also a witch, Father Solomon displays her in the town square to lure the Wolf. Henry and Peter help Valerie escape. Henry brings Valerie to the church, where the Wolf bites off Father Solomon's hand with silver-coated fingernails. The villagers shield Valerie from the Wolf, who is again forced to flee after burning its right paw on the church's holy ground. Since Father Solomon has been bitten by the Wolf, the Captain has no choice but to kill him.

Valerie dreams that the Wolf is her grandmother, and rushes to her nearby cabin, where she finds her grandmother dead and discovers that her father, Cesaire, is the Wolf. He reveals the curse was passed to him by his own father and he intended to leave the village with his children, having killed Lucie after realizing she could not understand him in wolf form and realizing Suzette had conceived her through an affair with  Adrien. He asks Valerie to accept the curse, but she refuses. Peter appears and Cesaire bites him and throws him aside. Peter throws an axe into Cesaire's back, allowing Valerie to kill her father. Valerie and Peter fill Cesaire's body with rocks and dump him in the lake in order to protect the secret from the villagers. Peter departs, vowing to return when he has learned to control the curse. Valerie says she will wait for him, and watches him depart.

In the next few years, Daggerhorn returns to normal; despite Cesaire's death, the people continue to sacrifice livestock to the werewolf, fearful of its return and not knowing it has been killed, while Suzette realizes Cesaire is never coming back, though she remains unaware that Valerie killed him. Henry becomes the next witch hunter, succeeding Father Solomon and becoming a highly honorable man, while Valerie chooses to live in the forest on her own, having become disillusioned with living in Daggerhorn. Finally, one night, Valerie hears something in the woods outside her grandmother's former house that she has moved into. She is then greeted by Peter, transformed into a werewolf and in full control of his abilities, when he returns to be with her. In the ending of the alternate cut, when Valerie sees Peter upon his return, she is holding their baby.

