In Atlanta, Dave Lockwood is married with three children, while his best friend Mitch Planko is single and at his sexual prime. After getting drunk at a bar, Mitch and Dave urinate into a fountain, simultaneously wishing they had each other's lives.

The next morning, Mitch and Dave realize they have “switched bodies.” Returning to the park to wish for their lives back, they discover the fountain has been removed for restoration. Forced to wait until the parks department locates the fountain, Mitch and Dave have to pose as each other.

At Dave's law office, Mitch befriends Dave's assistant Sabrina, but his lack of professionalism and legal knowledge sabotages an important merger with a Japanese firm. Dave arrives at Mitch's film shoot, discovering it is a "lorno" – "light" pornography.

Dave takes Mitch to tell his wife Jamie the truth, but she does not believe him. Dave advises him on how to behave professionally, and Mitch sets up Dave on a date with Sabrina, as Mitch has a crush.

After speaking with his father, Mitch rededicates himself to Dave's life. At her ballet recital, Dave's eldest child Cara takes Mitch's advice and throws her bully to the floor, which Mitch foul-mouthedly cheers. Cara tells him she loves him, and he says the same but feels guilty.

Dave takes the day off to take full advantage of being Mitch, who coaches him on how to act like Mitch on the date and shaves off Dave's pubic hair. Sabrina meets Dave at a classy restaurant and, despite only going because Mitch told her to, genuinely likes him, and they get tattoos. Dave walks her home, and she tells him to call her.

Mitch learns Dave told Jamie not to invite Mitch to their anniversary party, afraid he would ruin it. Dave informs Mitch the fountain has been found, but they both want to stay as each other a bit longer. Mitch forgets about the "Dialogue Night" he planned with Jamie, accidentally standing her up.

At the new merger meeting, the Japanese representatives offer only $625 million, $75 million short. As Dave's firm is about to agree, Mitch observes that the other representatives have not yet left, and compares the negotiations to sex and porn. He demands $725 million and has the representatives of Dave's firm begin to leave, scaring the other firm into agreement. Mitch and Dave's family then go to a gala held by the firm in honor of Dave being made partner, but Jamie is upset by the speech that praises his family values.

Dave and Sabrina are at a baseball game when a thunderstorm hits and wait it out at Mitch's house. She tells him she is going to have sex with him, but when he sees her tattoo of a many-spotted skipperling – his daughter's favorite butterfly – his focus returns to his family and he is determined to leave.

At the gala, Dave's boss delivers a speech about his accomplishments and love for his family, filling Mitch with guilt. Dave rushes in and kisses Jamie, finally convincing her that he is her husband. He and Mitch find the fountain, now located at a mall, surrounded by people. Proceeding with their plan to urinate in the fountain, Mitch is too embarrassed, especially after the crowd notices Dave doing so. Mitch asks why Dave did not invite him to his anniversary party, and Dave admits he was embarrassed by Mitch, but has grown to respect him while in his body. This relaxes Mitch enough to urinate, but their wish does not work. Security approaches, but on Mitch and Dave's third try the Galleria's lights go out, and they run.

In an epilogue, Dave and Mitch are thrilled to have returned to their original bodies. Mitch gets breakfast with Sabrina, not realizing the tattoo Dave got is of his face on Mitch's back, captioned "I ♥ Dave.” Mitch speaks at his father's wedding and attends Dave's anniversary party. In a post-credits scene, Dave and Jamie get high and visit the aquarium, while Mitch and Sabrina have sex for the first time, and Mitch sends Dave the porno he starred in.

