In Smurf Village, the Smurfs are preparing for the Festival of the Blue Moon. Papa Smurf sees a vision of Clumsy Smurf reaching for a dragon wand and evil wizard Gargamel capturing the Smurfs. Shortly after, Clumsy leaves to pick smurfroot and ends up leading Gargamel into the village. After Papa booby traps Gargamel, flinging him in the air, the Smurfs flee and Clumsy unknowingly runs for the Forbidden Falls, with Papa, Smurfette, Grouchy, Brainy and Gutsy following him. The Blue Moon appears and creates a vortex that spirits them to modern day New York City. Gargamel and his pet cat Azrael follow them. 

The Smurfs end up in the apartment of Patrick and Grace Winslow, a married couple who are expecting their first child. After they explain their situation, the Winslows befriend them and give them shelter. The next day, needing to find a "stargazer", the Smurfs follow Patrick to his workplace at Anjelou Cosmetics, believing he is a fortune-teller. Meanwhile, Gargamel extracts Smurf essence from a lock of Smurfette's hair, which gives him magic powers. While searching for the Smurfs, he wanders into Anjelou and impresses Patrick's boss, Odile, with his magic by restoring her elderly mother's youth. Upon discovering Patrick's connection to the Smurfs, Gargamel chases him and the Smurfs into FAO Schwarz, and causes chaos while trying to catch them. He is arrested and jailed, but manages to escape with the aid of a swarm of flies. 

With a toy telescope, Papa calculates the night he and the others can return home, but needs to work out a spell first. The Smurfs go to a nearby antique store to look for a spellbook, and find a book ''L’Histoire des Schtroumpfs'' by researcher Peyo, containing a spell that can turn the moon blue. Gargamel tracks them down in the store, where he also finds a dragon wand, and transfers his magic into it to use it against the Smurfs. Papa entrusts the spell to Brainy and helps the others escape before voluntarily stays behind to get captured by Gargamel.

After Clumsy convinces the others to rescue Papa even though he forbade it, the Smurfs and Patrick go to Belvedere Castle at Central Park, where Gargamel holds Papa hostage, and increases his wand's power with Papa's essence. Brainy successfully turns the moon blue, which opens a portal to their world, from where he summons all the Smurfs of Smurf Village. While the Smurfs use their unique skills to battle Gargamel, Smurfette defeats Azrael and saves Papa. Patrick knocks Gargamel out, who drops the dragon wand in the process. Clumsy tries to catch it, and to Papa's surprise, he succeeds and sends Gargamel flying into the path of a bus, which carries him away. The Smurfs then bid Patrick and Grace farewell and return to Smurf Village. 

In the post-credit scenes, it is shown that Patrick and Grace have a baby boy, whom they name Blue, the Smurfs rebuild their village in the style of New York, and Gargamel remains trapped in the real world.

