After his father's death, teenage Zach Cooper and his mother Gale move from New York City to Madison, Delaware where Gale gets a job as the local high school's new vice-principal. Setting in the neighborhood, Zach meets his neighbor Hannah, whose overprotective father tells him to stay away from her. Zach also befriends a cowardly but friendly student named Champ. Hannah invites Zach to an abandoned amusement park where they get know each other. Upon returning home, Hannah's father again warns him to stay away from them.

That same night, Gale has to supervise the school's spring break dance and leaves Zach with his aunt Lorraine. Fearing Hannah is in danger, Zach tricks her father into going to the police station while he and Champ enter his house. They find a bookshelf with numerous locked manuscripts from the ''Goosebumps'' horror book series. Zach accidentally unlocks ''The Abominable Snowman of Pasadena'' and the book's titular monster emerges from it. With Hannah's help, they track the snowman to an ice rink where Hannah's father appears and reimprisons the monster in the book.

Hannah's father reveals himself as R. L. Stine, the creator of the ''Goosebumps'' franchise; Stine wrote the stories to cope with severe bullying but his creations became real as result of his supernatural imagination and he was forced to keep them imprisoned in their books. Back home, they find Slappy the Dummy from the ''Night of the Living Dummy'' series freed from his manuscript. Seeking revenge for his imprisonment, Slappy burns his book and escapes with the entire ''Goosebumps'' collection. He unlocks ''The Haunted Car'' and ''Revenge of the Lawn Gnomes'' books, driving away in the titular possessed car as Stine, Zach, Hannah, and Champ are attacked by living garden gnomes who force them to leave the house. 

Slappy rampages through Madison, releasing several monsters from their books to wreak havoc. Mutant plants from ''You're Plant Food!'' destroy the cell towers to isolate the town, bug-eyed aliens from ''Invasion of the Body Squeezers'' freeze the entire police station and a vampire poodle from ''Please Don't Feed the Vampire!'' attacks Lorraine. Zach convinces Stine to write a new ''Goosebumps'' book to recapture the monsters, but Stine tells him it can only be done with a special typewriter displayed at the school. On the way, the group is attacked by Brent Green from ''My Best Friend is Invisible'' and a giant praying mantis from ''A Shocker on Shock Street'', hiding inside a supermarket. Will Blake from ''The Werewolf of Fever Swamp'' chases them to the parking lot where he is run over by Lorraine, who survived the poodle's attack. 

The group cut through a cemetery as Lorraine goes to the police station where she is freezed by the aliens. Zach sees Hannah ghost-like glows in the moonlight before being attacked by zombies from ''Attack of the Graveyard Ghouls''. In the school, Stine confesses to Zach that his daughter is Hannah Fairchild from ''The Ghost Next Door'', whom he originally created to cope with his loneliness. They find the typewriter and Stine starts typing a story based on the events around them while Zach and Champ attempt to warn everyone. 

Slappy releases all remaining monsters from the ''Goosebumps'' franchise and commands them to attack the school. Zach battles mutant bees from ''Why I'm Afraid of Bees'' while the monsters get in the school with help of toy robots from ''Toy Terror: Batteries Included''. Slappy finds Stine and breaks his fingers with the typewriter's case before he can finish the book. The group trick the monsters into following a school bus rigged with explosives while they board another and drive to the abandoned amusement park. Slappy tracks them down and releases the titular monster from ''The Blob That Ate Everyone'' as the other monsters arrive. Stine confronts it and is devoured while Zach, Hannah, and Champ take refuge in the park's ferris wheel where Zach finishes the story before the structure is damaged by the monsters. Zach refuses to open the story's book because Hannah will also be sucked in but Hannah reveals she knew the truth about herself all along and opens it, sucking all the monsters and herself inside. 

Sometime later, Stine begins working as a teacher at the school while starting a relationship with Lorraine. He reveals to Zach that he brought Hannah back into reality by writing a new copy of her book. As Zach and Hannah leave together, Stine incinerates the copy but then finds his typewriter writing by itself. Brent Green reveals he evaded his imprisonment and uses the typewriter to write a new ''Goosebumps'' book titled ''The Invisible Boy's Revenge''.

