Howl opens with Alpha Trax train guard Joe Griffin (Ed Speleers) doing a shift on an overnight passenger train, which is scheduled to depart London at midnight. The regular guard, is sick. His only consolation is the chance to spend time with his unrequited love, the tea-trolley girl, Ellen (Holly Weston). A shot of the full moon is shown piecing through a heavy thunderstorm as the train travels.

A few miles before reaching the final station, Eastborough, the train is nearly derailed in a forested area when it hits a deer. The driver is forced to make an emergency stop to check the situation and finds the dead deer stuck to the wheels, which he tries to remove. As he struggles with the deer carcass, a nearby werewolf attacks and kills him. Unaware of the dangers outside, the remaining passengers, Kate (Shauna Macdonald), Adrian (Elliot Cowan), Matthew (Amit Shah), Billy (Sam Gittins), Nina (Rosie Day), Paul (Calvin Dean), and Ged (Duncan Preston) and his wife Jenny (Ania Marson), are frustrated to learn that an emergency team will not be able to reach the train due to downed trees all along the line, so they persuade Joe and Ellen into letting them off the train to attempt to walk to Eastborough Instead. Soon, Joe and Ellen find the driver's eviscerated body as they walk through the woods, leading them to rush everyone back to the train, but a werewolf pursues them and bites Jenny's leg before she is pulled to safety.

As the others bandage Jenny's wound, Joe tries to call for help again but receives no response. Eventually, everyone realizes that none of them have cell phone reception, because of a broken antenna on the train's roof. Billy, an engineering student, determines that the fuel lines were damaged and leaking, which needed repair in order for the train to continue moving. Meanwhile, the werewolf tries to force its way into the cabin but is unable to penetrate the metal roof or double-paned windows. Later, when it climbs up on the roof of the train, the cellphone reception comes on and Nina's phone begins to ring. When she moves into a less secure area of the car, the werewolf smashes through the window and pulls her out.

The remaining passengers barricade themselves in another car, using the train's power tools to reinforce the windows and doors with metal grates.
Paul is killed when the werewolf manages to enter the car through the bathroom roof while he is dealing with diarrhea. The werewolf proceeds to break through the passengers' barricades, but the passengers fight together and kill it. Matthew recognizes the creature as a werewolf, leading Adrian to recall that someone bitten by a werewolf will become one. Thus, despite the objections of others, Adrian tries to kill Jenny, who is becoming disoriented, coughing up blood, and spitting out her teeth, before becoming a werewolf herself. Joe knocks Adrian unconscious, then has the others tie him up along with Jenny.

Unaware that the werewolf's death cries have alerted the rest of its pack, Billy and Joe attempt to repair the train so it can be driven to safety. As Joe and Ellen monitor the console, Billy goes out to fix the fuel lines. Matthew comes out to help protect him, but he runs into the forest when he hears a voice calling for help. He discovers Nina being eaten alive by a werewolf before he is attacked and killed himself. As the train begins to move again, the werewolf pack snatches Kate, who dies.

Jenny eventually transforms into a full werewolf and kills her husband, before trying to kill Adrian, but Joe kills her. Unfortunately, the other werewolves manage to board the train, and Adrian traps Joe and Ellen to cover his escape. Billy tries to beat off the werewolves with torches but is killed, while Joe and Ellen flee into the forest, pursued by the pack. Realizing they will not make it, Joe stays behind to fight them as Ellen safely makes it to the nearest station. Although Joe fights bravely, he is bitten by the chief werewolf and transforms into a werewolf. Shortly after, Adrian stumbles onto the scene and is attacked by the newly transformed Joe, while the other werewolves watch him from close.

