In 2007, three years before the Lambert haunting, teenager Quinn Brenner meets with retired demonologist, Elise Rainier.  Elise reluctantly agrees to try to contact the spirit of Quinn's mother, Lily, who died one year prior. However, Elise urges Quinn not to try to contact her mother again after sensing a malevolent force.  

Grace, an elderly woman who lives at Quinn's apartment building and suffers from dementia, says several strange and cryptic things to Quinn, seeming to allude to an unseen spirit.  Quinn later attends an audition for a performance arts school.  After leaving the audition, she sees a mysterious figure waving to her from the distance on the street. Distracted, she is hit by a car, breaking both of her legs.  

Now stuck in her home with her father, Sean, and brother, Alex, Quinn begins to experience increasingly disturbing paranormal phenomena, including seeing visions of a dark spirit wearing an oxygen mask known as the Man Who Can't Breathe. Quinn realizes that he is the same figure that caused her accident.  Sean runs into Grace's husband, Harry, and learns that Grace has passed away.

Sean meets with Elise, who like him is also grieving after the death of her husband, Jack, and tries to convince her to help his daughter.  Elise declines, stating that her previous visits to the dark spiritual world of the Further made her realize that an evil spirit―a Bride in Black―is hunting her. However, she is convinced by her friend and former colleague, Carl, to continue using her spiritual ability after he reminds her about her successful case involving Josh Lambert in 1986 and that she is stronger than the spirits, because she is still alive.

Due to Elise's initial refusal, Alex suggests Sean call on alleged demonologists, Specs and Tucker, who have built a following on the internet. During their investigation, Quinn becomes briefly possessed by the Man Who Can't Breathe and attacks Sean, Specs, and Tucker. Sean realizes Specs and Tucker are frauds and prepares to kick the duo out until Elise arrives. Deducing that the dark spirit's goal is to lure potential victims to the Further, so it can eat their life force, Elise decides to enter the spiritual world and enlists Specs and Tucker to help.

Elise enters the Further and has a brief fight with the Bride in Black before she discovers Jack's spirit. Jack begins to encourage Elise to commit suicide, so that they might be reunited. Elise realizes that Jack is actually the Man Who Can't Breathe in disguise and orders it to release Quinn. Quinn appears. Elise and the Man Who Can't Breathe engage in a struggle over Quinn before Elise escapes the Further and realizes that Quinn has to defeat him on her own. Though Quinn is at first at a disadvantage, Elise receives a message from Grace's spirit: Lily had left Quinn a letter to read before she graduated high school, but Quinn never found it.  Elise calls out to Lily's spirit to help. Lily suddenly appears in the Further and helps Quinn defeat the Man Who Can't Breathe by inspiring her to stand up for herself and pull off his mask, seemingly suffocating and destroying him. Quinn escapes the Further. Elise gives parting words to the family, including words of encouragement from Lily's spirit. She leaves with Specs and Tucker and the three agree to form a partnership.

Later in her home, Elise's dog barks at an unseen force.  Elise cannot see that behind her, a demon with a red face is watching.

