Three days before Christmas, the Engel family (parents Tom and Sarah, daughter Beth, son Max, and Tom’s German-speaking mother, whom the family call Omi) prepare for the holidays. Max, despite his family’s dysfunctionality, remains a firm believer in Santa Claus and writes him a letter. Sarah's side of the family come for Christmas, including her sister Linda, Linda's husband Howard, their children Howie Jr., Stevie, Jordan, and baby Chrissie, their bulldog Rosie, and Sarah and Linda's cantankerous Aunt Dorothy.

Max wants to maintain family traditions, but tensions among his relatives sap their Christmas spirit. When his cousins mockingly read out his letter to Santa, Max lashes out, yelling that he hates both his family and Christmas. His father attempts to comfort him by telling him that even though the holidays are chaotic, he should always love his family and gives him back his letter to Santa. In a fit of anger, Max tears up the letter and tosses it out the window, whereupon it is swept up into the sky.

Later that night, a severe blizzard engulfs the town, causing a power outage. When Beth ventures out to check on her boyfriend, a large, horned creature chases her. She hides beneath a delivery truck, but the creature leaves a jack-in-the-box, which attacks her.

When Beth does not return home, Tom and Howard leave to search for her. They find her boyfriend's house in ruins with the chimney split open and large goat-like hoof prints. Outside, Tom narrowly saves Howard from an unseen monster in the snow. They return home, board up the windows, and Howard stands guard while everyone sleeps. As Howard eventually falls asleep, a large hook with a living gingerbread man attached lures Howie Jr. to the chimney. When he takes a bite, he is dragged up the chimney despite the family's efforts to save him.

Omi explains that the creature hunting them is Krampus, an ancient demon who punishes those who have lost the Christmas spirit. Omi recounts that when she was a child, her parents and community lost their spirit due to the hardships of the war in Europe. Omi also lost hope and wished for her parents to be taken away, summoning Krampus. He and his helpers dragged everyone except her to Hell, leaving behind a bell-shaped bauble with his name on it. The family remains skeptical until menacing toys, hidden in presents delivered earlier, overrun the house. Jordan is devoured by the jack-in-the-box Der Klown. The family fends off the toys and gingerbread men, until Krampus' elves leap in through the window, taking Howard, Dorothy, and Chrissie.

Tom decides that the family should flee to an abandoned snowplow on the streets outside. Omi stays behind to distract Krampus, who emerges from the fireplace and attacks her with his bag of toys. Outside, Tom, Sarah, and Linda are dragged under the snow by the snow monster while Stevie is captured by the elves. 

Krampus confronts Max and gives him a bauble wrapped in a piece of his discarded letter. Realizing that he was responsible for Krampus’ coming, Max chases after the demon and confronts him at the edge of a fiery pit. Max begs for Stevie to be spared and offers himself up as a sacrifice. Krampus refuses and tosses Stevie into the pit. Max sincerely apologizes for losing his spirit; although Krampus seems to accept his apology, he still tosses Max in as well.

Max awakens in his bed on Christmas morning and discovers his family alive and well downstairs, concluding what happened was just a nightmare. As he unwraps a present to reveal Krampus' bauble, the family exchanges troubled looks as their memories of the horrific events slowly come back to them.

The house is shown through a magical snow globe, along with hundreds of others in a vast collection in Krampus’s workshop, for him to monitor and spy on for having spared them.{{efn|The prequel graphic novel ''Krampus: Shadow of Saint Nicholas'' revealed that anyone spared by Krampus will be kept on surveillance by him through their respective snow globes in his workshop to make sure they never lose their Christmas spirit again.}}

