A janitor is cleaning in a laboratory and interrupts a scientist as he asks to clean the floors in his working area. The scientist agrees and retreats to the hallway to a vending machine. The janitor accidentally knocks off a life monitor attached to a man; in his attempt to revive the man, he gives chest compressions but his hands rip through the flesh as the man awakens and attacks the janitor. Moments later, the zombified janitor attacks the scientist in the hallway.

Three high school sophomores, Ben, Carter, and Augie, are trying to recruit new members for their Scout group, led by their Scout Leader Rogers. While Augie has always been happy about being a Scout, Ben and Carter have second thoughts since they're growing out of favor and considering quitting the scouts. En route to a campsite, Ben accidentally hits a deer. They manage to get help from Carter's sister, Kendall, and her friends. Ben, who's had a crush on Kendall, gets some advice from her. They all see that the supposedly-dead deer has vanished. Before they leave, the two are invited to the "Secret Seniors Party" and Carter is given the address. 

When they get alcohol for the party, they meet Denise, a cocktail waitress who works at a strip club. She and Ben hit it off, and she agrees to buy the alcohol for them. The two then meet up with Augie in the woods so they can set up their campsite. That night, Carter wakes Ben so they can attend the party. Augie catches them; however, and is disappointed by their choice. The two drive into town to find that the bouncer for the strip club is no longer there, and they sneak in. The two are immediately attacked by a zombie bouncer and stripper before being saved by Denise. Augie goes to Scout Leader Rogers' house to find him, only to be attacked by Scout Leader Rogers as a zombie. Augie manages to deter him and flee the scene.

Ben, Carter, and Denise go to the police station to discover that the town has been evacuated before a zombie horde chases them into a locked holding cell. They wait for hours when the zombies hear music from outside and leave. Augie, seeing Ben's car, runs in and unlocks the cell, freeing them. They all escape and make their way down the freeway. The four are picked up by Corporal Reeves. They drive to the party to see if anyone is evacuated, only to find that the address that was sent to Carter was fake. 

Tensions rose amongst the group, but Reeves was bitten before meeting them and has now turned into a zombie. Denise kills him and they try to get a signal on his radio. They hear information about bombing the town to wipe out the zombies. Carter then remembers his sister's diary has the party information in it. The four take the vehicle and drive to Carter's house. Once there, they manage to get the diary, but, more zombies arrive and proceed to chase after the trio. They manage to escape using a trampoline to get to the now zombified neighbor, Ms. Fielder's house. From there, they take her car and head off down the road. The four find a dirt bike down the road and Denise takes it so she can get the military. Now left by themselves, Ben, Carter, and Augie create weapons at a hardware store and head to the party.

The zombies find the party, and proceed to attack the partygoers, until the trio turns up, armed with weapons, and proceeds to kill the zombies. Once they run out of ammo, they lock themselves in the building and the zombies follow them upstairs. Ben and Carter barricade the door when Augie reveals that he's built a bomb that was hidden in Ben's backpack. He manages to light the fuse when the zombies burst in and the three escape through a garbage chute just as it explodes, killing all the zombies. Denise and the military arrive at the scene, helping the survivors while the scouts reconcile their friendship.

