In 1944 Romania, the Wehrmacht is being steadily pushed back by the Red Army. A Wehrmacht squad led by Major Kurt Fleischer are engaged in heavy fighting while Fleischer is summoned for a new and dangerous mission. Fleischer is ordered to take  Professor Anna Kappel from the Ahnenerbe together with SS ''Sturmbannführer'' Heinrich Metzger into a forest, widely believed to be haunted, to find some ancient relic. Fleischer is dubious about the mission, all the more so because Kappel is his former lover while Metzger is his enemy, but complies.

Upon entering the forest, Fleischer and his men encounter a Red Army squad fleeing in terror from some unseen enemy and gun down all of the Russians except for the sniper Natalya Kovalenko. The sniper Dieter Baum chases after her and during a struggle, she dissolves into dust. Metzger catches glimpses of ethereal beings dressed in white robes that are watching the group. The demented SS ''Standartenführer'' Ackermann is found wandering the forest and he warns them all to leave before he is shot down. Fleischer and his men find the body of professor Bernd Dietrich of the Ahnenerbe crushed by a tank in part of the forest where it is impossible for tanks to operate. As various strange events take place, tensions rise between Fleischer and Metzger. Fleischer tells his adjunct Fuchs that it would be better for Germany to lose the war rather to ruled by men like Metzger whom it is revealed to have hanged a number of Jewish children a few weeks earlier. Fleischer discovers that there was a previous mission into the forest led by Dietrich and Ackermann that had disappeared and confronts Kappel. She tells him that Dietrich was convinced of the existence of a race of "Aryan god-men", described as superhuman beings with god-like powers who have been living in the forest for millions of years, and the purpose of the mission is to find a relic that will permit the SS to have the "god-men" use their powers to help the ''Reich'' win the war.

One by one, Fleischer's men are killed in strange and horrible ways. At night, voices speaking in an unknown language are heard in the forest. Fleischer becomes convinced that the "god-men" are real, and are thoroughly malevolent beings who kill for the pleasure of killing. After seeing their power, Metzger wants the power of the "god-men" for himself. Fuchs is taken by the "god-men" to a point in time in the past where he encounters the mission led by Ackerman and Dietrich and learns that Kappel is a senior director at the Ahnenerbe while taking the relic with him. In the present, the dying Fuchs arrives at an enormous stone complex in the forest, where he writes a warning in his own blood.

Fleischer, Kappel and Metzger arrive at the same complex and find the relic that Fuchs brought with him. Fleischer fights Metzger to keep him from possessing the relic (which is never seen directly, but emits a green light from the bag it is placed in), and ultimately kills him. Fleischer tells Kappel to bury the relic, but instead she tries to kill him as she believes that the "god-men" will remake her into their image, giving her the same god-like powers. The "god-men" intervene to kill Kappel as she unwillingly plunges her knife into her heart. Fleischer buries the relic and leaves the forest a prematurely aged man. A group of Red Army soldiers encounter and kill him.

