'''1995''': Valmiki and Ramachandra start their career as clerks in the company of Ananth "ARK" RadhaKrishna. Ramachandra, who marries ARK's daughter Yasoda "Yasu", becomes wealthy while Valmiki remains as a middle class person. On the day of the birth of both their children, Ramachandra's son appears to be stillborn. When nurse Sulochana informs Valmiki about this, he offers to exchange his baby with the dead one.

After the switch, the child that appeared dead starts to cry; however, Valmiki wants his son to grow up in a rich household. When Sulochana tries to switch the babies again, Valmiki tries to stop her and accidentally pushes her. Sulochana falls from the hospital building and goes into a coma with Valmiki getting a cramp that slowly turns into a limp. Valmiki's son is named Raj. Valmiki names Ramachandra's son Bantu and treats him roughly due to his true parentage.

'''2020''': After Valmiki refuses to pay for Bantu's MBA, Bantu goes to interview for a job at a travel company headed by Amulya aka Ammu, a self-made businesswoman. After a brief scuffle and misunderstanding with the company HR Shekhar, Bantu lands the role. Eventually, Bantu develops feelings for Ammu when he, Ammu, Shekhar, and their colleague Ravindra Reddy go to Paris for a business trip, and shortly after the trip, Ammu reciprocates his feelings.

Meanwhile, Raj returns from abroad, discontinuing his MBA. Ramachandra wants Raj to toughen up so he sends him to reject Paidithalli, the son of Appala Naidu, a wealthy, powerful and influential man who offers to buy 50% of their company's shares. Ramachandra watches the deal from the hotel where Ammu and Bantu have a meeting with Sudharshanam, the investor behind Ammu's firm, who wants to buyback Ammu's travel agency. Ramachandra is disappointed by Raj's hesitance and inability to say no to Paidithalli but is proud of Bantu and Ammu for saying no to Sudharshanam. Following this, Raj is engaged with Ammu on ARK's suggestion, even though Raj is already in love with his cousin Nandini "Nandu".

Appala Naidu attempts to kill Ramachandra for refusing to sell the shares minutes before Ammu and Bantu arrive to call off the marriage. Bantu saves Ramachandra by taking him to the hospital despite several attempts by Naidu's men to stop them. There he meets Sulochana, who comes out of her coma and reveals Bantu's true parentage. She passes away right after that. The furious Bantu slaps Valmiki. Bantu then manages to enter Ramachandra's house, named "Vaikuntapuram", by blackmailing Ramachandra’s doctor. ARK takes an instant liking to him.

Bantu addresses the issues plaguing the house by patching up Ramachandra's broken relationship with Yasu (which was fragile, as Ramachandra had an affair once with a woman named Revathi seven years ago), settling the dispute with Paidathalli, and reforming the corrupt family members, Sitaram and Kashiram.

At a party thrown at their house, Yasu witnesses Bantu and Ammu kissing each other. Bantu is ousted out of the house by Valmiki while Ammu's engagement with Raj is cancelled. Naidu uses the situation to his advantage by kidnapping and threatening to kill Nandu unless Ramachandra gives the shares to Paidithalli. When Valmiki begs Bantu to save Nandu, he refuses but goes anyway. He thrashes the goons, slams Paidathalli, and stabs Naidu. Later, Raj saves Naidu, thus ending his enmity with Ramachandra. Bantu and Valmiki arrive at Vaikuntapuram, where ARK slaps Valmiki and reveals that he overheard the conversation between Sulochana and Bantu right before her death. Bantu unites with his biological father, Ramachandra but asks him not to reveal the truth to Yasu, fearing she might be disheartened to know that Raj is not her real child. Unaware of this, Yasu remarks that Bantu is equal to Raj as he saved Nandu and the family, thereby giving Bantu 50% of its shares. Yasu then asks Valmiki to train Raj for five years to be as competent as Bantu and become the CEO of the company.

After arriving at Valmiki's house, Raj, feeling comfortable with his new middle class life and Bantu's old travel job, said that Valmiki, with a nurse's help, should have switched the babies 25 years ago so he could've ended up at Valmiki's house and Bantu at Ramachandra's, much to the dismay of Valmiki. The story ends with Valmiki watching hopelessly as Bantu leaves in a helicopter with Ammu.

