In 2010 Indian Army officer Arjun Shergill is on a mission to capture terrorist Rehman Gul, who attacked an Indian army convoy two days before. After a shootout Arjun arrests Rehman and saves a suicide bomber, who is Rehman's son Hamid Gul.

12 years later at Mumbai Airport, Arjun meets air hostess Ayesha and they fall in love. The airport is attacked by Hamid's men and Ayesha is killed. Arjun is paralysed from the neck down. V. K. Subramaniam, Chief of Indian Intelligence and Arjun's superior officer, proposes an AI-operated supersoldier program to the Prime Minister. DRDO scientist Sabaha Qureshi has been modifying the supersoldiers program for 7 years and is on the verge of a major breakthrough.

The Prime Minister agrees and Subramaniam selects Arjun for the program. Arjun is hesitant but agrees as he wants to avenge Ayesha's death. Arjun operates himself under the command of the Intelligent Robotic Assistant or I.R.A, which is restricted due to Arjun's trauma.

The government discovers that Hamid is procuring chemical weapons in Eastern Europe. Sabaha arrives at the Parliament to submit Arjun's progress to the Defence Minister. While conversing with I.R.A, Arjun learns that Hamid is planning to attack the Parliament and informs Subramaniam, who is at the Sansad Marg.

Hamid and his fellow terrorists, disguised as Rapid Action Force personnel, hijack the Parliament and capture the Parliament Ministry and Union ministers including the Prime Minister and Sabaha. Arjun leaves for the Parliament with National Security Guard commandos, but Hamid demands that the NSG retreat from the Parliament in exchange for the release of 50 hostages. Subramabiam insists to the Caretaker Prime Minister Digvijay Singh to perform a partial extraction, and sends Arjun to covertly infiltrate the Parliament and relay information. Arjun sneaks into the Parliament with I.R.A's help and kills some guards as he enters the control room and provides live feed to Subramaniam.

Hamid demands the release of Rehman. Sabaha is caught by the terrorist Hussain but Arjun kills Hussain and rescues her. Arjun reveals himself to Hamid via a walkie talkie and Hamid insists that Digvijay, Subramaniam and others command Arjun to surrender. Arjun agrees to surrender and is taken to Hamid where one of Hamid's men knocks Arjun's neck, causing a malfunction in I.R.A. Hamid demands safe passage to flee in an aeroplane to Ecuador and releases the hostages, but activates a sarin gas bomb to explode in the Parliament. Rehman is released from prison and taken to the airport.

Sabaha retrieves her laptop and reboots I.R.A., enabling Arjun to kill all the terrorists. Arjun tells Subramaniam about the bomb and asks to intercept Hamid, but Hamid has already fled via an old tunnel and leaves for the airport in an ambulance. Arjun tells Sabaha to retreat with the hostages and chases Hamid to the airport where he crashes the flight. Arjun kills Hamid and deactivates the bomb. Sabaha rescues the hostages, and the NSG Commandos kill Rehman by throwing him out of the plane in mid-air. Arjun is appreciated by Subramaniam and the ministers, and leaves the parliament by ambulance. Later, Arjun is appointed for another mission.

