Bheeshma is the CEO of "Bheeshma Organics" who wants farmers to shift from using chemicals in farming to organic practices. Bheeshma gets them to shift in organic farming and announces to the media that he will announce the next CEO on the company's 50th anniversary. Meanwhile, Bheeshma Prasad is a single man who seeks to find love, where he attends his friend Parimal's boss' pre-wedding party and meets Sarah. Bheeshma introduces himself as Bheeshma I.A.S. (I am Single) to Sarah and gets her to elope with him, but Sarah gets him stuck with the police and Parimal gets fired. Bheeshma's uncle JP has to bail him out by calling his classmate ACP Deva, who later asks JP to bring Bheeshma in order to teach him a lesson as he believes Bheeshma is a "loser" since he lives his life as a meme creator. 

Later, JP tells Bheeshma's father Anand Prasad that Bheeshma is serving a punishment with Deva and it is revealed that Anand and Deva were classmates and Bheeshma touched his daughter when they were little, which caused a split between both of them. One day, Bheeshma meets Chaitra and introduces to her as ACP Bheeshma as he is in a police vehicle and Chaitra introduces herself as an employee of Bheeshma Organics. Bheeshma decides to go with her and he ends up learning about organic farming. Raghavan, who is the CEO of Field Science, introduces a product called "Instant" which produces a six-month yield in four months by the use of chemicals and tries to influence some of Bheeshma's farmers by setting up a live interaction with Bheeshma. 

After a few hilarious twists, Bheeshma finds out that Chaitra is Deva's daughter. Deva soon develops a good opinion about Bheeshma, but Chaitra doesn't like him. Chaitra and Bheeshma leave for the interaction, where Bheeshma finds his friend Parimal and that he works for Field Science. Bheeshma talks about the greatness of organic farming during the interaction and wins over Chaitra. Suddenly, Deva's constable sends a picture of them hugging. Deva gets enraged and goes to Bheeshma's house, where he finds that Anand is Bheeshma's father and holds Bheeshma at gunpoint. Anand reveals that Bheeshma is the grandson of Sr. Bheeshma and he is the next CEO of Bheeshma Organics. Deva and Bheeshma are shocked and the media soon learn about this. 

When Bheeshma is ready to leave to take care of his grandfather, it is revealed that Anand lied to Deva in order to keep his son alive. Bheeshma is shocked and Chaitra breaksup with him saying that her father wants her to marry him since he is the grandson of Sr. Bheeshma and tells that she knows that he is not Bheeshma's grandson. Bheeshma decides to tell the truth to Deva, but is surprised when Sr. Bheeshma announces him as an operational CEO of the company for 30 days. Bheeshma is shocked by this decision and Chaitra despises him even more. Bheeshma also finds out that Parimal lost his job at Field Science due to Raghavan learning that Parimal is Bheeshma's friend and he joins as a driver for Bheeshma. 

Bheeshma is shown around the office and he quickly wins over the employees, where he also saves a village from signing from Field Science enraging Raghavan and also rewins Chaitra's love. Raghavan decides to make sure Bheeshma is not the next CEO by giving a poisonous hybrid plant to Sr. Bheeshma, who later gets hospitalized and also plants chemically made plants in Bheeshma's warehouse to further make the company lose reputation with a police raid. Raghavan invites Agricultural Minister Ajay Varma, to launch Instant to the world, but Ajay tells that the product is made with harmful chemicals and cancels the license of Field Science which surprises Raghavan and gets admitted to the hospital. 

Raghavan soon finds out that Sr. Bheeshma is alive and he was only hospitalized due to a high fever. The plant which Raghavan sent was actually destroyed by Parimal, thinking that the plant was for Jr. Bheeshma when it was actually for Sr. Bheeshma. Jr. Bheeshma suggests Parimal to replace the plant with a similar looking plant without the poisonous properties. Bheeshma also reveals that he found Sarah and Ajay in a hotel room and had blackmailed to telecast their relationship to the public in exchange for Ajay to provide a speech about the harmful chemicals present in Instant and the police found out about Raghavan planting the plants. Bheeshma is later appointed as the full-time CEO of Bheeshma Organics where Chaitra and Bheeshma finally marry with the approval of their parents.

