Hitman In-nam has completed an assignment in Japan, killing a Japanese mobster Koraeda. In Thailand, Young-joo sends her daughter Yoo-min to school, and tells her that a babysitter will fetch her after school, as she meets up with real estate agents for an investment in a golf course. Later, as Yoo-min gets down from the school bus, the babysitter takes her to her husband's car and drives away, instead of going home.

Realising that Yoo-min went missing, Young-joo reports to the police, and contacts Chun-sung to get In-nam for help, which In-nam rejects. The next morning, In-nam receives a message from Chun-sung that Young-joo is dead. Flashback to 8 years ago, it was known that In-nam was part of the National Intelligence Agency, with Chun-sung being his superior, and that Young-joo and In-nam were lovers. In-nam was instructed to leave Korea without her in order to protect her. Present day, In-nam travels to Incheon to see Young-joo's body, and subsequently discovers that Yoo-min is his child. After visiting Chun-sung for answers, In-nam receives a call from Shimida that Ray, Koraeda's estranged younger brother, is seeking revenge on the ones involved in the murder of Koraeda. Ray subsequently kills Shimida, then flies to Incheon and kills Chun-sung, and finds out that In-nam is headed to Thailand to find the kidnapped Yoo-min. He follows suit.

In Bangkok, In-nam meets Young-bae. The latter briefs about a real estate agent Jong-su, who Young-joo met before her death, who is a fraudster and has set up the kidnapping of Yoo-min. In-nam finds Jong-su and gets information, then leaves him to die. Meanwhile, Ray kills a gang that lied to him about having captured the babysitter. In-nam finds the babysitter's home, and tortures both her and her husband to get information about Yoo-min. Young-bae introduces Yui, a transgender woman, to In-nam for assistance. In-nam and Yui head to a building, then realise that it is a child trafficking operation meant for organ transplants. The two then know that Yoo-min already left the building for Lang Yao, Ratchaburi Province to do a heart transplant surgery. Ray arrives in the building, and finally meets In-nam and they fight, with In-nam eventually escaping. Yui and one child from the building also escaped, but are arrested by the police. That night, police raided the building, which belongs to Thai criminal organisation Chaopo. Chaopo's boss Lan instructs his men to kill In-nam and Yui. In-nam leaves for Lang Yao. Meanwhile, Yui tells the police that In-nam has gone to Lang Yao.

In Lang Yao, In-nam sees Yoo-min being taken away from a football factory for surgery. In-nam gives chase, but Ray intercepts to kill him. The police arrived, and shoot both of them. In-nam escapes from the gunfire, kills the surgeons involved before surgery and takes Yoo-min away. Chaopo's operations in Lang Yao are subsequently busted. At night, Ray storms into Lan's home and asks for help to get In-nam. Ray then visits and kills Young-bae.

The next day, In-nam and Yoo-min check in to a hotel, and then he heads out to secure an escape route for the two. Returning to the hotel, he gets ambushed by Chaopo's men. As he kills his way back to the room, Ray and several Chaopo's men are already inside and Yoo-min is kept in a luggage. Ray kills a few of Chaopo's men, having changed his mind, and tells the remaining men to bring In-nam somewhere else and wait for him, as he plans to settle Yoo-min first. In the car park, Yui sees In-nam being taken into a van, then rams the van with her pickup, and frees him. In-nam gives chase and barges into Ray's car and fights. He detonates a grenade, causing serious injuries to both of them. In-nam frees Yoo-min, when Yui arrives and he tells her to take Yoo-min and run away. He gets brutally stabbed by Ray, but then detonates another grenade inside, killing both.

In-nam left a bag of cash and documents in a locker, which Yui unlocks. He hoped that she will take Yoo-min to Panama in his place in case he gets killed. Yui and Yoo-min then left for Panama and settle down there. A photo frame in the Panama house shows a photo of In-nam and a photo of Young-joo and Yoo-min side by side.

