A brutally attacked man left for dead in the mountain ranges of Ladakh, is found frozen by an expedition team. He is taken to the "Re-Live lab", where Dr. Shishir introduces a technology that can revive dead people to Dr. Parineeti and her colleague Phalguni. Following the experiment, the subject wakes up but with no memory of his past. In Delhi, the subject's girlfriend Nabha explains to a loan officer that the subject named Vasu, handled multiple professions from day to night, during which she fell for him. While searching for his stepbrother Kaushik, who snatched the family's money, Vasu found him, but never returned. She also reveals that Vasu's family members are actually orphans who came to live together.

Meanwhile, Vasu escapes using Parineeti's card, but is recaptured after he faints due to being exposed to heavy lighting. Parineeti explains that Vasu was killed by someone and revived by the doctors, but is adamant about making Vasu revive his memories, and retrieves a commodity found with his corpse, giving it to Phalguni for servicing. In an attempt to gain the attention of those who remember him, Vasu thrashes a minister, and the video goes viral following his arrest. An aged gangster named Burma Sethu is surprised to find Vasu alive and sends his men to pick him from the police station with the help of Laalu Sastry's group. The goons take away Vasu, his brother and the doctors.

However, Phalguni throws out Vasu's package given by Parineeti, and Vasu picks up the package to find a music player and headphones. Listening to the music, Vasu's memories are revived, and fights off the henchmen, revealing himself to be Disco Raj; this information also reaches to Sethu by Laalu Sastry. Shishir explains that Raj's actual age is 70 as he was frozen for 35 years, and is possibly not Vasu. Raj takes Phalguni along with him on a quest to rediscover his identity. In the hospital, an injured Shishir explains to Sethu about Raj's revival. Raj visits the Madras Bar founded by him, where a friend explains that Raj was a music-loving gangster, who is at loggerheads with Sethu, a rival gangster whose refusal to collaborate sparked a gang war.

Both parties killed each other's members, but Raj succeeded in getting Sethu arrested for life. Raj also fell for a deaf and mute girl named Helen, who initially declined, but eventually reciprocated his feelings. When Helen got pregnant before marriage, Raj married her, faked his own death and left behind his gang to start a new life. However, Sethu was freed from prison and vengefully killed Raj's gang members. Raj and Helen were also attacked in Ladakh, but Raj managed to send Helen away in a truck before himself getting killed. After the revelation, Raj is confronted by Vasu and reveals himself as his son. Arriving at the spot, Raj and Phalguni are attacked by Vasu, who questions Raj about killing Helen. Raj denies killing her and gets into a fight with Sethu.

A stabbed Sethu reveals he did not get Raj killed in Ladakh, and he came after him to avenge his wife's murder. Raj denies killing her where he realizes the truth, and shoots the cop, who had not just brainwashed Vasu, but also sent goons to kill Vasu's family. Seeing the photo of the officer's corpse, the goons retreat. Raj and Phalguni discover that a man named Anthony Das gave orders to kill them, and along with Vasu, hold Anthony's men on gunpoint, before Anthony, revealed to be Raj's gang member Uttar Kumar, shoots Raj. He reveals that he killed Sethu's wife and got the latter to kill Raj's gang. Anthony even faked his own death and was one of the men who stabbed Raj in Ladakh.

However, Raj, Vasu and Phalguni together fight off and finish the goons. Raj later kills Anthony, and himself succumbs to the injuries. Returning to Delhi, Vasu pays his family's loan with the help of Kaushik and reconciles with Nabha. In the lab, Raj is brought back to life once again by the doctors, while Sethu and Anthony are also recovering in the lab.

