Ovi Mahajan Jr., son of incarcerated Indian drug lord Ovi Mahajan Sr., sneaks out of his house to visit a club with his friend. At the party, they go to the garage to have a smoke, where they encounter corrupt police officers working for rival Bangladeshi drug lord Amir Asif, who shoot Ovi Jr.'s friend and kidnap Ovi Jr.

After discovering this, Saju Rav — a former lieutenant colonel in the Indian Army Para Special Forces and Ovi Jr.'s protector — visits Ovi Sr. in prison. Unwilling to pay the ransom or surrender his territories to Amir as it will hurt his prestige, Ovi Sr. orders Saju to retrieve his son, threatening to kill Saju's own son if he is unwilling to do so.

Tyler Rake, a former Australian Army SASR operator turned black-market operations mercenary, is recruited by his partner and fellow mercenary, Nik Khan to save Ovi Jr. from Dhaka, Bangladesh. Tyler and Khan's team prepare to extract Ovi Jr., with Ovi Sr.'s men set to pay them once Ovi Jr. is recovered.

Tyler saves Ovi Jr., kills his captors and takes him to the extraction point. Learning of Ovi Jr.'s escape, Asif orders the head of the local police, Colonel Rashid, to initiate an immediate lockdown of Dhaka, securing all bridges and travel points out of the city. Ovi Sr.'s men intentionally fail to transfer the funds as it is revealed that Ovi Sr.'s bank account has been frozen by the authorities, so he had no means to pay the mercenaries in the first place.

Saju kills Tyler's teammates and tries to kill Tyler, so he can save Ovi Jr. himself and cheat the mercenaries out of their payment. Khan arranges for a helicopter to extract Tyler outside the city and tells him to abandon Ovi Jr. since the contract has been nullified. Tyler refuses to leave Ovi Jr. behind, haunted by memories of his own son, whom he abandoned after he could not stand seeing him suffer from lymphoma any longer.

After escaping Saju and the corrupt Dhaka Metropolitan Police tactical units on Asif's payroll, Tyler fights off a gang of boys led by Farhad, a young criminal eager to impress Asif.  Tyler calls his friend Gaspar, a retired American squad-mate living in Dhaka, and he and Ovi Jr. lay low at Gaspar's home for the evening.

Gaspar reveals Asif has placed a $10,000,000 bounty on Ovi Jr., which he offers to share if Tyler allows him to kill the boy. He refuses and fights Gaspar, who gains the upper hand, but is shot and killed by Ovi with Gaspar's own gun. Tyler calls Saju and asks for his help, forcing them to team up to escape Dhaka.

Tyler draws attention away from a disguised Saju and Ovi Jr. as the two make their way through a bridge checkpoint before following to cover their escape. Khan and her remaining mercenaries approach from the opposite side of the bridge, as Asif watches from afar with binoculars. In the ensuing firefight, Saju is shot and killed by Rashid, who is in turn shot and killed by Khan. Wounded, Tyler instructs Ovi Jr. to run to Khan's waiting helicopter. As a badly wounded Tyler follows, he is shot in the neck by Farhad and seeing Ovi Jr. is safe, falls into the river. Ovi Jr., Khan and the extraction team escape to Mumbai for safety.

Eight months later, Khan encounters Asif in a restroom and promptly shoots him to death. Meanwhile, Ovi Jr, who's returned to Mumbai, jumps into his school's swimming pool to practice holding his breath, mirroring the scene where Tyler is introduced chronologically in the film. He surfaces to see a blurred vision of a man resembling Tyler watching him.

