Chris Kringle and his wife Ruth operate a Christmas present workshop on an old isolated farm near the small town of North Peak, Alaska. Struggling with declining income over the years due to children becoming increasingly vicious, the United States Government,  who maintains an interest share in Chris's business because Christmas is a major economic stimulus, starts cutting back on their subsidies. To remedy Chris' income loss, US military Captain Jacobs is sent to propose a two-month contract for producing jet fighter components, which is outright refused. The liaison agents override Chris's misgivings by implying next year Government's subsidies will likely decrease. Ruth manages to restore Chris's spirits, who grudgingly accepts their offer only this one time.

Billy Wenan, an amoral pernicious boy who lives with his old money grandmother, is the quintessential vicious child who commits several despicable acts against people he considers inferiors. On Christmas Eve, Billy receives a lump of coal from Chris, swears revenge and hires his personal hit man, Jonathan Miller, to assassinate Chris. Miller, who also harbors a bitter childhood grudge against Chris, sets off on a killing spree until he successfully coerces a Postal Service supervisor for Chris's confidential postal address. Making his way to North Peak, Miller trails Chris to the farm, kills the US Army guards and infiltrates the workshop until an elf worker raises the alarm. Jacobs succeeds in evacuating the workers before Miller kills him and blows up the workshop.

Chris fights Miller and gains the upper hand, but Miller wounds Chris using a hidden blade and then shoots Chris dead. Ruth kills Miller afterwards, and Chris recovers from his injuries. Backtracking Miller's assignment, Chris and Ruth pay a visit to Billy and stop him from poisoning his grandmother’s milk to cover his check forgeries. Irritated, Chris admits he has become lax when dealing with children like Billy, and warns him that from now on he will come for all vicious children in the night if they keep harming people. Back at the farm, Chris, Ruth, and the elves start rebuilding the workshop bigger and better with renewed confidence in the future.

