Tom Dolan, a former US Marine and demolitions expert, has become a successful bank robber nicknamed the "In-and-Out Bandit". One day, while storing his money in a storage unit, he meets Annie Wilkins, a psychology graduate student working at the facility.

A year later, Tom is in a relationship with Annie and decides to turn himself and the money in to the FBI in exchange for a short sentence to put his criminal past behind him. FBI Agent Sam Baker dismisses him, having received false confessions in the past, and sends subordinates John Nivens and Ramon Hall to interview him. Tom directs them to the storage unit where his money is kept but Nivens convinces Hall to take the money for themselves. Nivens and Hall confront Tom at gunpoint at his hotel and learn he has two-thirds of the money hidden elsewhere as a bargaining chip. When Baker unexpectedly arrives, Nivens murders him while Tom flees with Annie.

Tom tells Annie everything and asks her to leave. However, she returns to the storage unit to get security camera footage of Nivens and Hall stealing the money. Nivens and Hall show up and Nivens knocks Annie unconscious before the pair escape with the footage. Tom finds Annie and races her to the hospital. Baker's partner, Sean Meyers, attempts to arrest Tom, but Tom escapes while telling Meyers what really happened. Meyers begins seeing discrepancies in Nivens' story.

Tom ambushes Hall in his home and convinces him to give up the security footage and the location of the safe house where the two stored the stolen money. Tom gets Annie out of the hospital, and Annie gives Meyers the security footage. She also leads him to the rest of the money. After Tom blows up Nivens' house with a bomb, Nivens flees to the safe house and finds Tom and Hall there. When Nivens discovers Hall turned over the security footage, he murders him in a rage, wounds Tom, and escapes. Anticipating his actions, Tom activates a bomb he placed in Nivens' car, forcing him to call in a bomb squad to disarm it. Meyers has Nivens arrested and recovers the stolen money from his car. It’s revealed that the car bomb was a harmless dud and that Hall was wearing a wire with which he caught Nivens' confession to Baker's murder as well as Nivens' murder of Hall.

With his name cleared of the murder charges, Tom turns himself in, and Meyers promises to try to get him a lighter sentence. Meyers expresses his respect for Tom's actions in both taking down Nivens and turning himself in for Annie, suggesting that in other circumstances, Tom would make a good FBI agent.

