Every six years, an ancient order of expert Jiu Jitsu fighters faces a vicious race of alien invaders in a battle for Earth. For thousands of years the invaders have lost to Earth's defenders, up until now. Earth's future is in jeopardy.

In a jungle in Burma (Myanmar), Asia, Jake Barnes, a celebrated war hero, is running away from shuriken under the command of Brax, the powerful invader leader. Jake ends up on an oceanside cliff, where he is hit by the stars, falls into the ocean, hits his head and blacks out.

Wylie, a senior Jiu Jitsu fighter, rescues Jake from the water and gives him over to the care of two Burmese fishermen. They stitch up Jake's cuts and take him to a nearby military outpost, assuming that he came from there. After foreboding miscommunication between an inexperienced translator and one of the fisherwomen, Jake is left at the outpost and starts to regain consciousness. But he must regain his strength! Puzzled by the mention of a comet that comes every six years and a hole in a temple opening, the operatives set about figuring out where Jake came from. An intelligence officer, Myra, tries to interrogate Jake but he appears to have amnesia, with no recall of events leading to his being found in the water.

After a fight sequence Myra injects Jake with a truth serum, but this proves ineffective on what he divulges. She decides it is probable that he actually does not remember, but while discussing this with other operatives, Keung, advanced Jiu Jitsu fighter, begins to work his way through the base, besting fist and gun alike. Keung is unfazed by repeated attacks by men in balaclavas and fatigue uniforms, who he lays flat. Gunfire and the sound of feet against chests, heads and the like alert Myra and the others that indeed something is up. After more fighting, Keung approaches Jake who he recognizes with a special handclasp. Keung exclaims "We gotta go" and Jake accepts this chance to leave his captors. Their departure from the base confirms that Jake, too, is skilled in the art of using his limbs in defense against others.

Jake then reunites with three other fighters who seem to know him but he does not remember who they are or what his mission is. As they try to leave to head back to their base, soldiers turn up again. The three other fighters defeat the entire unit easily but Jake gets grabbed by Myra. She tried questioning him again back at the military base but he simply tells her she should leave. They then decide to move out from the army base as they try to escape but they are hunted down by an alien called Brax. The group confronts Brax at the temple and fight him. During the fight, it is revealed that Brax has a weakness to fire and uses that to his advantage. Jake manages to cut down Brax with a sword and shove a grenade in his gut before it heals up. He kicks Brax into the portal and it explodes finally ending the alien race.

