Inspector Anjaney Agashe is a rugged drug-addicted cop who gets rid of known criminals by killing them and staging their deaths like a police encounter as his daughter Vaani had been shot during a raid in Goa. A released convict named Advait Thakur immediately calls Agashe and informs him of an upcoming murder of a police officer and wishes him ''Happy Solstice''. Michael Rodrigues is Agashe's colleague and a plays-by-the-rules cop whose personal life is breaking down as his wife Teresa is having an affair with another man. Later, Michael learns that his friend and co-worker Victor has been brutally murdered. 

At the crime scene, Michael meets Agashe and the two are instantly at odds with each other: Agashe wants to kill the murderer, while Michael wants the murderer to be imprisoned. It is implied that Advait is behind Victor's death. Advait soon kills Michael's colleagues Nitin and Deven, where Michael becomes suspicious of a drug-addicted prostitute named Jessie, who is Advait's friend and has been helping him with the murders. Michael notices her in the room and follows her to her presiding place. On knowing that Michael is following her, Jessie tries to burn down the evidence at her place, but Michael enters and learns that he is also one of the targets on Advait's hitlist. Advait surrenders himself to Agashe and Michael's past with Advait is revealed.

'''Past''': Advait is a cheerful and happy-go-lucky guy who meets Sara Nambiar at a rave party in Goa. The two fall in love and decide to travel and party together as vagrants. One day, Sara finds out that she is pregnant with Advait's child. The two initially decide to mutually abort the child. At another rave party, Agashe gatecrashes the same party to capture drug dealers and a shootout ensues, where Vaani is killed in the crossfire. Sara witnesses Agashe's breakdown at his daughter's death and changes her mind. Vaani's death leads to Agashe's alcohol and drug addiction and his change in personality. Sara tells Advait of her decision and she does not need a nomadic life. Having a fear of commitment, Advait leaves Sara and goes off towards the northern mountains to meet a friend. Advait soon realizes his mistakes and returns back to Goa. 

Meanwhile, Michael is about to marry his girlfriend Teresa, but is uncomfortable with sex and intimacy. Fearing that his lack of sexual experience will make him "less than a man," Michael goes to Jessie to lose his virginity. Sara has been living with Jessie after Advait left her. When Jessie was away at the market, Michael arrives and mistakes Sara for Jessie. Advait arrives at Jessie's house and finds Michael trying to strangle Sara, where he intervenes and calls the cops. Nitin, Deven and Victor arrive and takes Sara and Advait to the station. However, the police take Advait and Sara to a bridge, where they plan to frame them for drug peddling to avoid Michael's scandal of visiting a prostitute. Michael injects a lethal drug into the couple before throwing Sara off the bridge, while Advait is sentenced to five years in prison. Advait has been taking revenge for Sara's death.

'''Present''': Michael reveals to Advait at the station that he strangled Jessie after the house burnt, where he leaves so that Agashe can kill him in an  "encounter." Agashe takes Advait to the same bridge, where Advait tells him that Michael and his friends killed Sara. At the same time, Michael goes home and sees that Teresa is about to leave him. Michael suffers a psychotic breakdown and attempts to murder her, but is suddenly injected and killed with a drug by Sara, who is still alive.

It is revealed that Jessie had saved Sara, who loses her baby. Over the course of five years, Sara and Advait had been planning to exact vengeance together. Agashe's assistant receives a call informing him that Michael has been murdered in his own home. A shocked Agashe wonders reluctantly releases Advait due to lack of evidence and Teresa protects Sara by telling a fake testimony. Advait and Sara find peace and start a new life, while Agashe receives a phone call from an unknown female caller who similarly informs him about an upcoming murder like Advait.

