Two criminals, Jamie and Matthias, are involved in the attempted robbery of a garage that goes wrong: Jamie on a spur of the moment attempted to rob the garage, but the owner fought back. Jamie shoots a hostage, and Matthias gets shot in the leg. They escape, but Matthias needs medical attention. A disgraced physician (Chad Michael Murray) is taken hostage along with his family, after the two criminals, break in the house and demand he remove a bullet from one of the criminal's legs.

However, the physician's father Frank, (Bruce Willis), finds that his wife had been killed. Rich successfully removes the bullet, but Frank sees an  opportunity, suddenly picks up the scalpel, and cuts Jamie, who  then grabs a large kitchen knife and stabs Frank, who escapes into the night. Rich threatens to cut Matthias artery with a scalpel, but Jamie shoots him in the shoulder. Matthias is completely incapacitated, as Rich has not closed the wound and but only stemmed the blood flow by using surgical clamps. In the meantime, Frank has returned to the house to his dead wife, and looking through the window, he sees his wounded son. They meet in the garage, where Rich instructs Frank on dealing with his gunshot wound. Jamie and Matthias consider their options.

In the morning, Jamie decides to go find and kill the family. Jan and Riley are together in an outbuilding. Frank and Rich decide to fight back, Rich stuns Jamie in the Garage, and Frank lures Jamie away from the house in the car. Jamie subsequently returns to the house to look for the others. Rich and Jan meet up, but Jamie attacks Rich from behind and knocks him out. When Rich wakes up, he is back in the house, where Jamie forces him to complete the operation. Matthias dies during the operation. Meanwhile, Frank returns to the house and sets Jan free. Jamie threatens to shoot Rich but Jan stops him, shoots, misses, and runs out of the house with Jamie chasing after her. Rich grabs a gun and follows him and fatally shoots him. The family is all reunited on the front porch.

