Qin Guoli, a Chinese accountant based in Great Britain, has been forcibly contracted by Maasym, leader of the terrorist organisation Brothers of Vengeance, to finance his projects. After Qin had tipped off Scotland Yard, Maasym was killed in a military operation by US forces, but his son Omar has survived and now wants to get his hands on his father's money, whose whereabouts are solely known to Qin. Omar has hired the mercenary gang Arctic Wolves, who kidnap Qin and his new wife Meiwei during London Chinatown's Chinese New Year festival. Vanguard, an international security company assigned to protect Qin, sends agents Zhang Kaixuan, Lei Zhenyu and Mi Ya to rescue him. After the operation's successful conclusion, Qin asks Vanguard's director Tang Huanting to protect his daughter Fareeda, who is currently in Africa, before Omar can use her as leverage against him.

Tang, Lei, and Mi Ya travel to Africa and find Fareeda, but also have to contend with the Arctic Wolves and a poaching gang who have been hired as additional muscle. During the chaotic first altercation, Lei and Fareeda are separated from the rest of the group and hide out in the nearby jungle, forcing Tang and Mi Ya to search for them on foot, guided by satellite tracking provided by Vanguard headquarters. Tang and Mi Ya rejoin their companions and fight their pursuers in a furious river chase with an amphibian car and jet skis, which ends with Tang and Mi Ya getting stranded and Lei and Fareeda being captured. Broto, the leader of the Arctic Wolves, proposes to trade his captives for Qin, which Qin immediately agrees to.

Tang rallies his agents to storm Omar's fortress in the Middle Eastern city of Jiadebala and rescue the hostages. With some local help, the Vanguard operatives infiltrate the heavily guarded stronghold and make preparations for the next day's exchange. However, Omar and Broto have expected an intervention, and the operation quickly escalates into a running gun battle. When Vanguard is encircled and overwhelmed, Qin gives himself up to enable the agents to escape. Tang, Lei, Zhang, Mi Ya and Fareeda travel to Dubai, where Maasym has deposited his fortune, and cooperate with the local police to watch two Arctic Wolves mercenaries who have arrived there to facilitate a major arms deal for Omar with Maasym's money. Incidentally, this also gives Omar an opportunity to kill Admiral Greg Dawes, the man who killed Maasym and who has just arrived in Dubai.

Heavily surveilled by both sides, Omar, Broto and Qin meet with arms dealer Josef at a second-hand car dealership, where the money has been converted into cars made of pure gold; in return for his fee, Josef provides Omar with the control system for a missile attack drone, which the latter wishes to use against Dawes. Dubai police executes a strike against the terrorists, but their approach gives Omar's party plenty of time to activate the drone and then escape in the gold cars. The Vanguard agents move out to intercept the terrorists, and due to forewarning by the Dubai police, US forces intercept and destroy the drone. The chase ends inside a shopping mall, where Omar and Broto are overpowered and arrested, and the film concludes with the protagonists celebrating the Chinese New Year in Dubai.

