{{Long plot|section|date=July 2020}}
In 2057, pollution and overpopulation have caused an ecological crisis on Earth. As part of the first stage of terraforming, automated interplanetary missions seeded Mars with atmosphere-producing algae. The crew of Mars-1, consisting of Quinn Burchenal, Bud Chantilas, Robby Gallagher, Kate Bowman, pilot Ted Santen, and Chip Pettengill, is dispatched to investigate after the oxygen produced by the algae mysteriously decreases.

A gamma-ray burst damages "Mars-1" upon arrival. Bowman remains on board for repairs, while the others land in search of an automated habitat (HAB 1) to produce food and oxygen. The team's landing craft gets damaged during entry and lands in the wrong place. "AMEE," a military robot programmed to guide them, is lost, and Chantilas sustains a severe injury, so the crew departs to allow him to pass away in peace. Bowman talks to Houston while in orbit around Mars. Houston tells her that "Mars-1" is in a decaying orbit, but there is hope that the engines can be fixed so they can leave Mars.

The landing party discovers HAB 1 destroyed, despite the fact that the module was field-tested in Tornado Alley to withstand storms on Mars. Pettengill and Santen separate from the others to explore, reaching a canyon where they argue. Pettengill kills Santen by accident, then returns to Burchenal and Gallagher and informs them that Santen committed suicide. Gallagher opens his helmet, preferring death over asphyxiation, but discovers that Mars' atmosphere is breathable.

The only salvageable material from the habitat is the liquid fuel, which has ruptured and pooled beneath the wreck. With no remaining power in their suits, the astronauts light it on fire so they have a bonfire to survive the Martian night's massive temperature drop. AMEE rejoins the crew, and the three astronauts notice that the robot is damaged and attempt to shut it down in order to recover its guidance device. AMEE wounds Burchenal and pursues the others before fleeing, perceiving their actions as a threat. Gallagher informs the others that she has entered military mode and plans to kill them all one by one. She wounded Burchenal rather than killing him because she was trained that a wounded man slows the enemy.

Gallagher builds a radio from parts of the Mars Rover ''Pathfinder'', through which Bowman instructs them to use a Russian probe's sample-return system to launch themselves into orbit. The trio seeks refuge from an ice storm inside a cave. Pettengill flees with the radio, only to be killed by AMEE. After the storm passes, Gallagher and Burchenal recover Pettingill's radio from his body and discover that it has become infested with insect-like native Martian life (identified by Burchenal as "nematodes"). The insects are highly flammable. Later, the two come across a field of algae being eaten by insects, and Burchenal figures out what happened: The Martian insects had lain dormant on their nearly dead world, but when Earth's probes spread algae fields across Mars, it provided them with a new food source, resulting in a population explosion. The Martian insects are responsible for the algae's demise, but in the process, they provided Mars with breathable oxygen levels because they produce oxygen as a waste product.

Burchenal explains to Gallagher that the biochemistry of alien insects' respiratory metabolism is capable of producing oxygen far more efficiently than human science can. Studying the insects' biochemistry is the key to terraforming Mars and may lead to discoveries that will allow Earth's polluted atmosphere to be repaired. Burchenal is attacked by the insects when blood drips from an open wound. Rather than be eaten alive, he passes his sample vial of insects to Gallagher before immolating himself and his attackers.

Gallagher arrives at the Russian probe, discovers that there is not enough electrical power to launch the probe, and realizes that AMEE's power core is the only available replacement. Gallagher lures AMEE into a trap and disabled her using one of the probe's sample launchers, then steals her battery. He launches himself in the probe's sample-return capsule and travels to orbit, where he is recovered and revived by Bowman. With a six-month return trip to Earth, the computer has time to analyze the insects, and Bowman and Gallagher have time to start dating.

