In 1944 Nazi-occupied Poland, 14-year-old Erik Lehnsherr is separated from his parents upon entering the Auschwitz concentration camp. While attempting to reach them, he causes a set of metal gates to bend toward him because of his mutant ability to generate magnetic fields, but is knocked out by guards. In the not-too-distant future, U.S. Senator Robert Kelly attempts to pass a "Mutant Registration Act" in Congress, which would force mutants to reveal their identities and abilities. Nearby, Telepathic mutant Professor Charles Xavier sees Lehnsherr, who now goes by the name "Magneto", in attendance and is concerned with how he will respond to the Registration Act.

In Meridian, Mississippi, 17-year-old Marie accidentally puts her boyfriend into a coma after kissing him, because of her mutant ability to absorb the power and life force of others. Adopting the name "Rogue", she flees to Alberta and meets Logan, also known as "Wolverine", a mutant with superhuman healing abilities and metal claws that protrude from between his knuckles. Sabretooth, a member of Magneto's Brotherhood of Mutants, attacks them on the road, but two members of Xavier's X-Men, Cyclops and Storm, save them. Wolverine and Rogue are brought to Xavier's school for mutants in Westchester County, New York. Believing that Magneto is interested in capturing Logan, Xavier asks him to stay while he investigates the matter. Rogue enrolls in the school.

Brotherhood members Toad and Mystique abduct Senator Kelly, bringing him to their hideout on the uncharted island of Genosha. Magneto uses Kelly as a test subject for a machine powered by his magnetic abilities that generates a field of radiation, which induces mutations in normal humans. Taking advantage of his newfound mutation, Kelly later escapes. Rogue visits Wolverine during the night while he is having a nightmare. Startled, he accidentally stabs her, but she manages to absorb his healing ability and recover. Mystique, disguised as Rogue's crush Bobby Drake, later convinces her that Xavier is angry with her and she should leave the school. Xavier uses his mutant-locating machine Cerebro to find Rogue at a train station, and the X-Men go to retrieve her. Meanwhile, Mystique enters Cerebro and sabotages it.

Having left ahead of Storm and Cyclops, Wolverine finds Rogue on a train and convinces her to return to the school. Before they can leave, Magneto arrives, incapacitates Logan and subdues Rogue, revealing it was her whom he wants rather than Wolverine. Although Xavier attempts to stop him by mentally controlling Sabretooth, he is forced to release his hold when Magneto threatens the police who have converged on the station, allowing the Brotherhood to escape with Rogue. Kelly arrives at the school, and Xavier reads his mind to learn about Magneto's machine. Realizing the strain of powering it nearly killed him, the X-Men deduce he intends to transfer his powers to Rogue and use her to power it at the cost of her life. Kelly's body rejects his mutation, and his body dissolves into liquid. Xavier attempts to locate Rogue using Cerebro, but Mystique's sabotage incapacitates him, and he falls into a coma. Fellow telekinetic and telepath Jean Grey fixes Cerebro and uses it, learning that the Brotherhood plans to place their machine on Liberty Island and use it to "mutate" the world leaders meeting at a summit on nearby Ellis Island. The X-Men scale the Statue of Liberty, battling and overpowering the Brotherhood while Magneto transfers his powers to Rogue and activates the machine. As Wolverine confronts and distracts Magneto, Cyclops blasts him away, allowing Logan to destroy the machine. He transfers his powers to Rogue, rejuvenating her while incapacitating himself.

Professor Xavier and Wolverine recover from their comas. The group also learns that Mystique escaped the island battle and is impersonating Kelly. Xavier gives Wolverine a lead to his past at an abandoned military installation in Canada before visiting Magneto, now imprisoned in a complex constructed of plastic. Magneto warns him that he intends to escape one day and continue the fight; Xavier replies that he will always be there to stop him.

