In Muthalakotta, a village in Palakkad, people are financially recovering from the 2018 floods through gaining self-sufficiency via numerous farming ventures. Four youngsters and an elderly person arrive at the village during the flood and help them. Following the flood, the group decides to stay back in the village. They take over majority of the farming from the villagers and start an ashram for yoga and spiritual practices. With the new state government mandate of turning any empty and unused land into farming land, the villagers, along with the RDO officer Anjali, beseech the wealthiest man in the village, Edathala Mathai, to give his 18-acre land to the government.

To avoid losing the plot and to start a township by changing the land category, he decides to lease his property to the slick Neyyattinkara Gopan, who plans to level the land under the guise of fish farming. However, Gopan is revealed to be actually siding with the villagers. He helps the villagers in farming which angers Mathai, and is involved in helping villagers solving their problems. Mathai sends goons to thrash Gopan, but he thrashes them. Gopan exposes Mathai's involvement in money laundering, hawala scams. Mathai's sons questions Sathyasheelan, who introduced them to Gopan and reveals that Gopan's real name is Col. Suryachandra Lal, who had lost his parents when they were killed in a train journey by Muthalakotta Battalion (4 youngsters and Guruji), who are involved in many crimes.

The Muthalakotta Battalion arrived at Muthalakotta with a fake identity in order to save themselves. After the revelation, The youngsters kill Sathyasheelan. Gopan conducts a show with A. R. Rahman as the chief guest, where he defeats the group and gets them arrested by the NIA. The youngsters and Guruji are killed in a shootout conducted by the NIA. Soon, a cop reveals that Gopan is not Col. Suryachandra Lal and that the actual Suryachandra Lal is in army hospital undergoing treatment for depression. Gopan is then revealed to be a high-profile secret agent codenamed ''Agent X'' who works for the Central Home Department and participates in many secret missions with many different identities.

