Dylan Forrester, a psychopath and former assassin, is suppressing his instincts through depressant drugs supervised by Dr. Alderwood. He dodges his parole to travel to Guardian Island, an Island owned by his family, to reconcile after the sudden death of his brother, Sean. His mother, Linda Forrester, despises him for his true nature and encourages him to leave. Meanwhile, Agent Shaughnessy is trying to track Dylan down for dodging his parole believing he's too dangerous. Sheriff McCoy, Guardian Island's Sheriff discovers Dylan is a wanted fugitive and arrests him and locks him in the island's bunker.

A fixer named Cole lands on the island with his crew of mercenaries and kills Sheriff McCoy. A hotel employee named Jo hears the attack and teams up with Dylan to escape, letting him go. When Cole's crew raid the house, one of his crew is knocked out by Dylan after calling the crew informing them Dylan escaped. The crew leave the house to search for Dylan. Dylan returns to the house and helps his family protect themselves. Dylan kills two of Cole's crew and has suspicions that Sean was hiding something in the house that led Cole to the island. Cole claims that nobody on the island is of importance to him and that he only wants what's on the island. Dylan and the survivors find a secret passage set up by Sean. Dylan realizes that Sean partnered with Cole to buy the island believing something valuable is there. The family enters the passage and discovers a Japanese submarine containing Yamashita's Gold stolen during World War 2.

Cole's mercenaries find the secret lair and a shootout begins; Massey and Dylan fight back against the mercenaries using one of the submarine's deck guns. Cole holds Linda at gunpoint and forces Dylan to help him steal the gold. Massey tries to shoot Cole with the deck gun but Cole kills him instead. Dylan refuses Cole and throws the gold he tried to steal into the water. They are ambushed by Agent Shaughnessy, who's shot and wounded by Cole. Cole tries to throw Linda into the water and she's left hanging from a platform. Dylan stabs Cole to death and throws him into the water and saves his mother. The survivors leave the island and Dylan takes some of the gold. Dylan bids farewell to Dr. Alderwood in a phone call and dumps his depressant pills into the ocean.

