An ex-bouncer, Lindy Lewis (Kate Beckinsale) suffers from intermittent explosive disorder, which is triggered by interactions with people. She has been seeing a psychiatrist, Dr. Ivan Munchin, who has been attempting to treat her disorder with an electroshock vest, which is slowly becoming less effective. He advises that she try forming a relationship with someone as another path to treatment. Against her better judgement, she goes on a date with an accountant named Justin, with whom she gets on very well. Just before their next date, she discovers he has been murdered. After the police seem indifferent to his killing, she goes on a hunt for the killer. She steals his belongings from the police station, and escapes from Detectives Vicars and Nevin in Justin's McLaren 600LT Spider, ending in a crash which puts Vicars in the hospital. She uses Justin's phone to discover who he had been working for, which leads her to an arms dealer, who after interrogation tells her it was his boss, Gareth Fizal.

She tells the police of the information she has uncovered, and Vicars gives her Fizal's location, but Nevin tries to stop her. She escapes Nevin and travels to Fizal's office building, where the head of security, Delacroix, detains her and confiscates her vest before releasing her. Delacroix informs Fizal, who asks for Lindy to be dealt with, while Lindy goes to see her psychiatrist to be provided with another electroshock vest. While she is there her home is boobytrapped with explosives, but she disarms them and takes them with her, setting her own explosion in her apartment to make Delacroix and Fizal believe they have been successful. Lindy then attempts to break into Fizal's building, but is found by Delacroix and taken to see Fizal, who admits to having had many people killed. She is again detained by Delacroix who attempts to kill her by exsanguination, but she escapes and uses Delacroix's own equipment to torture him to find out how to access Fizal's office. She fights her way through security to get back to Fizal's office, where she finds he is already dead - shot in the head by Justin, who reveals himself to be a CIA agent who had faked his death to use Lindy to kill Fizal, having paid for Munchin's research. Justin attempts to kill her by electrocuting her with her own vest, but she has become immune to its effects from overuse, and she uses the explosives taken from her apartment to kill Justin.

Lindy returns to Dr. Munchin, who admits that he had been doing as Justin had said. Vicars and Nevin arrive to find Lindy holding Munchin at gunpoint against the wall. Assuming she is trying to kill him, they shoot her in the leg, but they discover she was handcuffing him to hand over to them. In hospital after receiving treatment, Vicars asks Lindy on a date. After leaving the hospital Lindy returns to her burnt out apartment and is met by a mysterious woman, who tells her she was a superior to both Munchin and Justin and tries to convince Lindy to join her.

In a mid-credits scene, a hacker who helped Lindy break into Justin's phone discovers that the keys given to her by Lindy as payment are for Justin's car.

