A young Madeleine Swann witnesses the murder of her mother by Lyutsifer Safin, whose family was assassinated by Swann's father Mr. White under orders from Ernst Stavro Blofeld. Swann shoots Safin and flees, falling into a frozen lake, but Safin rescues her.

In the present, after Blofeld's arrest,{{efn|As depicted in ''Spectre'' (2015)}} Swann travels to Matera with James Bond. She asks Bond to visit the nearby grave of his ex-lover Vesper Lynd, where he survives an explosion orchestrated by Spectre operatives led by Primo, a mercenary with a bionic eye. Bond escapes with Swann but ends their relationship, believing that she betrayed him.

Five years later, Spectre agents extract MI6 scientist Valdo Obruchev, who is secretly working for Safin, from a laboratory in London and steal Project Heracles, a programmable DNA-targeting nanobot bioweapon developed under M's oversight. Retired and living in Jamaica, Bond is contacted by CIA ally Felix Leiter and State Department agent Logan Ash, who ask for Bond's help extracting Obruchev from a Spectre party in Cuba. Bond declines but later accepts after Nomi, his successor as Agent 007, warns him not to interfere with her own extraction of Obruchev and puts him in contact with M, who refuses to answer his questions about Heracles.

Bond infiltrates the party with Paloma, a Cuban agent assisting Leiter. Blofeld, overseeing the gathering from Belmarsh through Primo's bionic eye, disperses a nanobot mist to kill Bond. However, Obruchev reprogrammed the nanobots under Safin's orders to kill the Spectre members instead. Outmaneuvering Nomi with Paloma's help, Bond brings Obruchev to Ash and Leiter aboard a trawler. Ash, also working for Safin, shoots Leiter and traps him with Bond below deck, fleeing with Obruchev after blowing up the ship. Leiter dies of his wounds, but Bond escapes.

Bond returns to London seeking to interrogate Blofeld about Obruchev's employer, but Blofeld reportedly only speaks to his psychiatrist, Swann. Safin coerces Swann into infecting herself with a nanobot dose to assassinate Blofeld. Meeting Swann in Belmarsh, Bond unknowingly infects himself with Swann's nanobots. Swann is too scared to confront Blofeld, who reveals to Bond that he planned the explosion at Vesper's grave to make Bond believe that Swann betrayed him. Enraged, Bond briefly strangles Blofeld, unknowingly allowing the nanobots to enter his system and kill him.

Bond tracks Swann to her childhood home in Norway, where they reconcile, and he meets her five-year-old daughter Mathilde. Swann insists she is not his child and shares intelligence her father gathered about Safin and the island his family owned. The following day, MI6 alert Bond that Ash is approaching, leading to Ash and several armed thugs ambushing Bond, Mathilde and Swann, chasing them into a nearby forest. Bond orders Swann and Mathilde to hide in the forest while he confronts Ash and his forces, defeating Ash's men before killing Ash, avenging Leiter's death.<!-- DO NOT DELETE THIS BECAUSE OF THIS DIALOGUE:
LOGAN ASH: WHY DON'T YOU HELP ME OUT, BROTHER?
JAMES BOND: I HAD A BROTHER. HIS NAME WAS FELIX LEITER. --> While Bond is fighting Ash, Safin absconds with Swann and Mathilde.

Q provides Bond and Nomi with a submersible glider to infiltrate Safin's headquarters, a missile base in the Sea of Japan converted into a nanobot factory. Bond and Nomi plan to rescue Swann and Mathilde before ordering a missile strike on the facility. Bond confronts Safin, who flees with Mathilde but later releases her, while Swann escapes and reunites with Bond and Mathilde. Nomi kills Obruchev by kicking him into an acid pool,<ref>{{Cite web |title=NTTD Final Script |url=https://deadline.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/No-Time-To-Die-Read-The-Screenplay.pdf |url-status=live |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20220125210510/https://deadline.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/No-Time-To-Die-Read-The-Screenplay.pdf |archive-date=25 January 2022 |access-date=8 August 2022 |website=Deadline Hollywood}}</ref> then escorts Swann and Mathilde off the island. Bond kills Safin's remaining men, including Primo, then stays to open the silo doors for missiles launched from HMS ''Dragon'' to penetrate. Bond rushes back to the control room when the silo doors begin closing, but is ambushed by Safin, who infects him with a nanobot vial programmed to kill Swann and Mathilde. Bond shoots Safin dead and reopens the silo doors, but he chooses to remain on the island and die, to keep Swann and Mathilde safe. He radios Swann to say goodbye, expressing his love for her and Mathilde, who she confirms is his daughter.  The missiles destroy the facility and Bond dies in the resulting explosion.

Later, at MI6, M, Moneypenny, Nomi, Q, and Bill Tanner drink to Bond's memory. Driving Mathilde to Matera, Swann tells her a story about a man named Bond; James Bond.

