Hutch Mansell leads an ordinary life as an office worker with his wife Becca and two children named Blake and Abby. One night, some thieves break into his house with a gun. Blake grabs one of the thieves and Hutch prepares to fight, but he ultimately relents and lets them leave. Everyone sees Hutch as a failure, but Hutch reveals to his brother Harry that he held back because the burglar's gun was unloaded. Hutch's brother-in-law Charlie offers Hutch a gun for his own protection, which he refuses. Hutch also offers to let his father-in-law Eddie buy out his business, but he considers it a bad offer. 

The following evening, Abby realizes her bracelet is missing and Hutch sets out to find it. Hutch suspects the thieves from the previous night took the bracelet, based on one of their tattoos, which Hutch recognizes and uses to find the tattoo parlor they got it from. Hutch locates the thieves and demands they return the bracelet, but leaves after realizing they do not have it. While on a bus heading home, a group of intoxicated thugs board the bus and begin harassing a teenage girl; Hutch brutally fights them off. Unbeknownst to him, the group's leader, Teddy, is the brother of Yulian Kuznetsov, a Russian crime lord safeguarding the mob's ''Obshchak'' money (a common treasury used to settle disputes in the Russian mafia). 

Hutch returns home and is bandaged by Becca, who knows of Hutch's past. Meanwhile, Yulian manages to identify and locate Hutch using his dropped metro card, and sends a team to Hutch's home to capture him while blackmailing a United States Department of Defense official to uncover Hutch's past. Harry calls Hutch ahead and warns him of Teddy's connection to Yulian. He asks Hutch to check with The Barber, Hutch's former government handler. When the capture team arrives, Hutch hides his family and kills the attackers. 

Hutch reveals he is a former "auditor", an assassin employed by the United States Intelligence Community. While working as an auditor, Hutch spared a target who later reformed and lived happily with a new family. Wanting a similar life, Hutch retired and settled down. 

Hutch sends his family to safety and retrieves his hidden gold and cash; he also finds Abby's bracelet under his couch. He burns his house down to dispose of the dead attackers and steals his neighbor's Dodge Challenger. Two assassins attempt to kill Hutch's father David at his retirement home, but Hutch manages to defeat them in time. Hutch uses his gold to buy his father-in-law's metal fabrication factory, where he burns Yulian's ''Obshchak'' money and booby-traps the entire factory. 

Hutch visits Yulian and offers to end the fighting. Yulian also wants out as he cannot finance the entire Obshchak. Hutch suggests a retirement in one of the lesser-known Caribbean islands away from the Russian mafia, while Hutch gets his life back. However, Yulian and his men pursue him to the factory and surround him nonetheless. Suddenly, Harry and David arrive to assist Hutch, and the trio kill Yulian and the Russian mobsters. The police arrive and Hutch is arrested, but he is suddenly released without charges following a mysterious phone call. Three months later, Hutch and his family have returned to normal life in their new house, when Hutch receives a call suggesting that his services are still required.

