Sr. Inspector Cheung Sung-bong sets out to track down former Sr. Inspector Yau Kong-ngo and his team as they ambushed many officers during major drugs bust against a gangster named Wong Kwun. Yau and his team finishes Wong Kwun and steals the drugs. It is revealed that Yau and his team wants to exact revenge on Cheung and the police department for having them imprisoned on charges of beating a suspect named Coke to death during a case on the disappearance of a bank tycoon named Fok Siu-tong, who runs a bank named HK Fortune Banking.

Cheung and his team raids nighclubs in order to know about the drug dealer who sold Wong Kwun's drugs. They soon learn about the drug dealer named Gwai and tries to capture him, but Gwai dies in an accident. During a date with his girlfriend Kwan Mei-you, Chu Yuk-ming strangles Mei-you to death after he finds that she is cheating on him. Wong Kwun's watch is found on Mei-you's body and Cheung realizes Chu had stolen the watch and deduces Yau's involvement in Wong Kwun's death. Cheung tracks down Chu and a chase ensues where one of Yau's teammate Law Kim-wah gets arrested by the police. 

Yau kills Chu in order to cover his tracks, where he along with his another teammate Mok Yik-chuen soon arrives at the police station to complain about his another teammate Chiu Chi-keung's disappearance. The police soon find Chiu's body and learns that Yau strapped Cheung's former superior Sze-to Kit with a timed collar bomb to his neck, and sent him to hold Cheung's pregnant wife Anna Lam hostage. Cheung manages to rescue Anna and Kit dies in an explosion. Yau, Wah and Mok are released due to lack of evidence, where they form a plan to rob HK Fortune Banking. 

Cheung soon learns about their plan where he along with his team head to HK Fortune Banking. Yau and his teammates rob the bank and shoots Fok due to his disappearance being the reason behind his imprisonment. Cheung locates Yau and his teammates and a chase ensues where Yau's team are all killed trying to flee. Yau is cornered by Cheung and they have an intense fight in a church. As police surround him, Yau kills himself by falling on some exposed rebar rather than going back to jail, while Cheung walks away.

