The Cooper family live in Pittsburgh and are happy together, with the father, survival expert Ray, and his teenage daughter Rachel sharing an interest in practicing mixed martial arts and self-defense at the gym Ray runs. However, things go downhill when Amanda Cooper, Ray's wife, falls ill with cancer. Her husband is told that a new life-saving drug developed by BioPrime could save her. However, he subsequently learns it was pulled off the market due to BioPrime CEO Simon Keeley paying the manufacturer to delay production. Ray sees Keeley on a live TV interview show and Ray calls in and threatens to kill Keeley if his Amanda dies. After Amanda dies, Ray and Rachel are devastated. 

Six months later, Ray receives a call from investigative journalist Martin Bennett, who tells him that he has evidence of criminal activity and corruption committed by BioPrime. They meet on a subway, unaware they were followed by Rachel and a hitman named Santos. Bennett explains that BioPrime has been bribing anyone who questions their dirty deeds, but before he can share more, Santos stabs him dead, then stabs Ray and knocks out Rachel, leaving them both on the platform. 

Two years later, Ray has been obsessively tracking Keeley's movements and BioPrime's activities. He infiltrates BioPrime's charity auction, where Keeley is the keynote speaker, and threatens him. Keeley tells him that BioPrime's chairman, Vinod Shah, is behind all the corruption. In the brutal fight that follows, Ray kills a bodyguard and strangles Keeley to death. He then flees with Rachel and they hide in a motel outside of town. Rachel, concerned that her father has gone too far, contacts FBI Agent Sarah Meeker and tries to convince her to look into BioPrime's misdeeds. Two mercenaries break into the motel to attack them, but Ray sets a trap and kills them both. He then sets up an ambush in a bridge to attack the heavily guarded Shah but Santos appears and shoots Shah dead, causing Ray and Rachel to flee. 

The pair tracks Santos to a diner, where they have a parley. Santos, who experienced persecution from an oppressive government in his homeland as a child, admits that he is sympathetic to Ray's cause. He agrees to a temporary truce and reveals that Congresswoman Diana Morgan is his employer, giving Ray a lead on her location, but warns that the next time they meet, he will kill them.

Returning to the city, Ray is pursued by the FBI and flees to the roof of PNC Park. As Meeker tries to talk him down, it is revealed that "Ray" is actually Rachel. Ray had died from his wounds at the subway two years ago. Rachel, suffering from PTSD and dissociative identity disorder, has devoted herself to avenging her parents' death, as she is broken after losing both her parents months apart. She jumps into the Allegheny River but is retrieved by the FBI, restrained, and put in an ambulance. After breaking free, she locates Morgan's campaign office, where Santos attacks her. After another brutal fight, she stabs Santos to death. 

She confronts Morgan and secretly records the Congresswoman admitting she was bribed by BioPrime for government contracts and had ordered the hit on Bennett and Ray. Rachel flees and sends the recording to the FBI. In the aftermath, Morgan is arrested for her crimes, while Rachel obtains a fake passport, exchanges her money for cryptocurrency, and boards a plane to an uncertain future.<ref>{{cite web |last1=Mendelson |first1=Scott |title=Netflix's Most-Watched Movie, 'Sweet Girl,' Has A Huge Twist That Won't Please Anyone |url=https://www.forbes.com/sites/scottmendelson/2021/08/21/jason-momoa-isabela-merced-sweet-girl-most-watched-movie-plot-twist-explained/?sh=754205472e0f |website=Forbes |language=en}}</ref>

