Michael Bryce, temporarily retired from being a bodyguard while he awaits reinstatement of his license, tries to clear his mind on vacation in Capri until Sonia Kincaid tracks him down and forces him to help her rescue her hitman husband Darius after mobsters kidnap him.

After saving Darius, Bryce and the Kincaids are caught by Interpol agent Bobby O'Neill, who reveals the mobster they killed was his informant and forcibly enlists their help in locating Greek billionaire terrorist mastermind Aristotle Papadopoulos, who plans to destroy the European power grid and infrastructure in retaliation the European Union is planning to impose more sanctions on Greece.

O'Neill sends Bryce and the Kincaids to infiltrate a party in Portofino and buy the coordinates to a data grid, which results in a shootout after Bryce is recognised by a former client. After getting help from his bodyguard stepfather, Bryce Senior, the trio are captured by Aristotle's henchmen and Aristotle reveals that he is Sonia's old flame.

Aristotle seemingly turns Sonia against Darius, so he and Bryce are forced to flee. Senior reveals himself to be Aristotle's head of security and denigrates and disowns Bryce. Bryce and Kincaid compose themselves and work together to rescue Sonia, who reveals that she is manipulating Aristotle, and thwart Aristotle, who learns of Sonia's deception and attempts to drown her.

After killing Aristotle's henchmen, Darius and Bryce disrupt his plan to drill into a data junction under water and damage the European power grid and communications and fight Aristotle and Senior. Bryce kills Senior while Kincaid and Sonia kill Aristotle. Bryce manages to hit the manual override to destroy the ship and stop the drill, and the three survive the explosion. 

O'Neill says they have to stay on a yacht for 48 hours together before being cleared and free, then hands Bryce papers to sign, which Bryce thinks is his bodyguard license. Bryce signs them only to find out they are adoption papers for him to become the son of Sonia and Kincaid, much to the horror of both Bryce and Kincaid. Bryce despondently jumps off the yacht he is piloting while Sonia and Darius have sex inside.

