In Los Angeles, an armored truck robbery leaves two guards and a bystander dead, which sets off a series of events told in four acts.

'''A Dark Spirit'''

Five months after the robbery, Patrick Hill joins Fortico Security as an armored truck guard. His manager Terry commends his references and company trainer "Bullet" nicknames him "H". Hill barely passes firearm training and gets off to a rocky start with his colleagues, including “Boy Sweat” Dave and Dana Curtis. During a pickup, Bullet is taken hostage and Hill convinces a panicked Dave to comply with the robbers before he disposes of the entire crew with expert marksmanship and merciless efficiency. Hill is questioned by FBI agents investigating the first robbery. The FBI investigators bring their suspicions about Hill to their superior, Agent King, who tells them to leave Hill alone. Hill receives a dossier of Fortico employee files and an autopsy report. Three months later, Hill and Bullet are waylaid in Chinatown, but the robbers flee at the sight of Hill. Hill continues to investigate his coworkers and they become increasingly suspicious of him.

'''Scorched Earth'''

Five months before joining Fortico on the day of the first robbery, Hill is with his son Dougie. Revealed to be working with a robbery crew, Hill grudgingly agrees to monitor an armored truck's route, leaving Dougie in the car. A group of robbers hijack the truck and spot Dougie. Hill races back to his son and watches as Dougie is murdered before he is also shot and left for dead.  Three weeks later, Hill wakes up in the hospital and meets with King, who gives him a list of suspects and agrees to temporarily turn a blind eye. Hill is revealed to be Mason Hargreaves, a notorious crime lord; determined to find Dougie's killer, Hargreaves and his men — led by Mike, Brendan, and Moggy — kill nearly everyone on King's list, without results. Mike voices his concerns about retaliation, and Hargreaves agrees to lay low in London, but instead assumes the identity of Patrick Hill and joins Fortico to continue the hunt alone. It was Hargreaves' own crew who attempted the Chinatown robbery until Mike recognized him.

'''Bad Animals, Bad'''

Sometime before the first robbery, a group of disgruntled Afghanistan veterans — Carlos, Sam, Brad, Tom, Jan and their former sergeant Jackson — decide to become thieves. Their first robbery results in only 110 thousand dollars. With help from an unidentified guard who served under Jackson, they decide to pull off a more ambitious heist of an armored truck. During this Fortico heist Jan needlessly shoots the guards, Dougie and Hargreaves, who sees Jan's face.

'''Liver, Lungs, Spleen & Heart'''

Five months later, the veterans reunite to steal over $150 million from the Fortico depot on Black Friday weekend. Bullet reveals to Hargreaves that he is Jackson's inside man, threatening him into cooperating. The crew takes the depot hostage, but an alarm is triggered; in the ensuing gunfight, multiple guards are killed and Hargreaves kills and wounds several robbers. Fleeing with Bullet and Jackson, Jan murders them to escape alone with the money. At home, Jan finds a phone in one of the money bags, planted by Hargreaves to track its location. Hargreaves confronts him with Dougie's autopsy report, shooting him in the same places he shot Dougie. Abandoning the money, Hargreaves tells King his task is done and is driven away.

