After three years in prison, Cruella de Vil has been cured of her desire for fur coats by psychologist Dr. Pavlov. She is released on probation but warned that if she breaks parole she will be immediately sent back to prison, as well as be forced to pay the remainder of her fortune, some eight million pounds, to all the dog shelters in Westminster. Cruella, therefore, mends her working relationship with her much-abused valet Alonzo and buys the Second Chance Dog shelter, owned by Kevin Shepherd, to save it from insolvency. Cruella's probation officer, Chloe Simon, is the owner of Dipstick (one of the original 101 Dalmatians Cruella had stolen); she suspects Cruella will strike again despite her growing popularity as an animal person.

Dipstick's mate, Dottie, gives birth to three puppies: Domino, Little Dipper, and Oddball, who appears to be an albino, and begins to feel self-conscious about her lack of spots as she grows up. Meanwhile, Dr. Pavlov discovers that when his therapy patients are subjected to loud noises, they revert to their former personalities, but he conceals these findings from the public. Inevitably, when Big Ben rings in her presence, Cruella reverts to her former personality. After recognizing Dipstick and remembering her failed attempt of making a dalmatian fur cout, she enlists the help of French furrier Jean-Pierre LePelt. Together, they design a new fur coat, with the intention of using Dipstick's children for a hood as a part of Cruella's revenge. 

Chloe and Kevin go out on a date while Dipsticks and other dogs watch a movie, where Kevin tells Chloe that, if Cruella violates her parole, her entire fortune will go to him, since his dog shelter is the only one currently operating in Westminster. Knowing this, Cruella has Kevin framed for the theft of the first 99 dalmatian puppies LePelt takes, also exploiting the fact that Kevin has a prior record of dog-napping. She invites Chloe and Dipstick to her house for a dinner party to decoy them away while LePelt steals Dottie and her three puppies. Dipstick quickly returns to the apartment but is later captured. Chloe rushes home to save her pets but arrives too late. She is joined by Kevin, who has escaped from prison with the help of his talking macaw, Waddlesworth. Kevin explains that his earlier conviction was for breaking animals out of a lab, where they were being used for experiments.

Upon finding LePelt's lost ticket for the Venice-Simplon Orient Express to Paris, Kevin and Chloe attempt but fail to stop Cruella and LePelt before their train departs. Oddball, who managed to escape, secretly follows them to LePelt's factory in Paris. Kevin and Chloe get there as well but they are discovered by Cruella, who locks them in a cellar. Despite this, they free the puppies through a hole in the ceiling. Cruella goes after the puppies alone, while Alonzo, having been mistreated beyond his patience, defeats LePelt and frees Kevin and Chloe. They pursue Cruella to a bakery and find that the puppies, led by Oddball, have tricked Cruella into being baked in an enormous cake. Cruella survives, then she and LePelt are both arrested.

Chloe and Kevin, exonerated from the theft accusation, return to London and are personally awarded the remnants of Cruella's fortune by Alonzo himself. Oddball's coat finally develops a few small spots, much to everyone's surprise.

