A ''Carnotaurus'' hunts a herd of dinosaurs, destroys an ''Iguanodon'' nest, and killing a ''Pachyrhinosaurus''. The lone surviving ''Iguanodon'' egg is stolen by an ''Oviraptor'', and after a series of mishaps, arrives at an island inhabited by prehistoric lemurs, and hatches. Plio, the daughter of lemur patriarch Yar, names the baby Aladar and raises him alongside her daughter Suri, despite Yar's initial objections.

Several years later, a fully grown Aladar watches the lemurs take part in a mating ritual, in which Plio's awkward teenage brother Zini fails to find a female. Moments after the ritual ends, they are interrupted by a meteor crashing into the Earth, creating an explosive shockwave that destroys the island. Aladar and Yar's family flee across the sea to the mainland. Being the only survivors, they mourn for their losses, before journeying into the mainland, also devastated by the meteor.

While journeying across the desert wasteland, they are attacked by a pack of ''Velociraptor''s. They escape by joining a multi-species herd of dinosaur refugees heading for the communal Nesting Grounds. Falling afoul of callous ''Iguanodon'' herd leader Kron, they retreat to the end of the line and befriend the old ''Styracosaurus'' Eema, her pet ''Ankylosaurus'' Url, and her equally elderly friend Baylene, a ''Brachiosaurus''. The herd travels for days without water to the site of a lake, only to find it seemingly dried up. Kron orders the herd to move on and let the weakest perish, but Aladar stays behind with a struggling Eema. He and Baylene dig until they reach the water table. The rest of the herd follows suit, and Kron's sister Neera, impressed by Aladar's compassion, begins to grow closer to him, while Kron begins to see him as competition for herd leader.

Meanwhile, two ''Carnotaurus'' have been tracking the herd, and ambush a scouting party led by Kron's ''Altirhinus'' lieutenant Bruton. Surviving the attack, a badly wounded Bruton warns of the approaching predators. Ushering the herd away from the lake, Kron deliberately leaves Aladar, the lemurs, the elderly dinosaurs, and the injured Bruton behind, hoping that they will slow their pursuers down. The abandoned group takes shelter in a cave as night falls, but the ''Carnotaurus'' arrive at the cave during the night and attack. Fending off the attacking predators, Bruton sacrifices himself to cause a cave-in that kills one of the ''Carnotaurus'', forcing the survivor to retreat.

The group ventures deeper into the cave, but they reach a dead end. Aladar briefly loses hope, but Baylene urges him to not give up, using her strength to smash through the wall, revealing the intact Nesting Grounds on the other side. While the group briefly celebrates, Eema notices that a landslide has collapsed the usual entrance into the valley. Seeing that the landslide is deadly and knowing Kron will force the herd to climb over there, Aladar rushes off to warn Kron. Refusing to listen, he attacks Aladar to stop him from taking over the herd, but Neera grows fed up with Kron's uncaring behavior and intervenes on Aladar's behalf. She and the herd follow Aladar, while Kron tries to climb the rocks alone to try and discredit Aladar's advice. 

The surviving ''Carnotaurus'' arrives on the scene; Aladar rallies the herd to stand together against it, forcing the outnumbered ''Carnotaurus'' to back off before it notices Kron alone and attacks him instead. Aladar and Neera rush to Kron's aid, but fail to arrive in time to save him. Aladar manages to push the ''Carnotaurus'' towards the edge of the cliff, where the ground gives way, causing the ''Carnotaurus'' to fall to its death. Aladar and Neera mourn Kron, and then lead the herd to the Nesting Grounds. Sometime later, a new generation of dinosaurs hatches - among them Aladar and Neera's children - and the lemurs find more of their kind.

