Sir Topham Hatt and his family have left the Island of Sodor on holiday, leaving Mr. Conductor in charge. Gordon complains that Thomas was eight seconds late. Diesel 10 races by, scaring both engines. In Shining Time, Mr. Conductor is suffering a crisis; his supply of magic gold dust is too low for him to travel back from Sodor. At Tidmouth Sheds,  Diesel 10 announces his plan to rid Sodor of steam engines by destroying Lady, the lost engine. Lady had been hidden in a workshop on Muffle Mountain by her driver, Burnett Stone, after Diesel 10's previous attempt to destroy her. Lady is unable to steam despite trying all of the coals in Indian Valley. The steam engines agree to find Lady before Diesel 10, unaware that Diesel 10's sidekicks, Splatter and Dodge, are spying on them. That night, Diesel 10 approaches the shed where the steam engines are sleeping and destroys the side of it with his claw. Mr. Conductor scares Diesel 10 away by threatening to pour a bag of sugar in his fuel tanks.

Mr. Conductor calls his cousin, Mr. C. Junior, to help him with the gold dust crisis. That night, Percy and Thomas conclude there is a secret railway between Sodor and Shining Time. Diesel 10 tells Splatter and Dodge of his plans to destroy Lady. Toby overhears and distracts Diesel 10, who knocks one of the shed supports with his claw, which collapses the roof on top of them. The next morning, Thomas is collecting coal trucks when one of them rolls through the buffers that lead to the secret railway. Mr. Conductor is abducted by Diesel 10, who threatens to drop him off a viaduct unless he divulges the location of the buffers. Mr. Conductor cuts one of the claw's hydraulic hoses and is thrown free. He lands at the Sodor windmill, where he finds a clue to the source of the gold dust.

Burnett's granddaughter Lily meets Patch, who takes her to Shining Time, where she meets Junior. Junior takes her through the Magic Railroad to Sodor, where they meet Thomas. Thomas is not happy to see Junior, but agrees to help and takes them to the windmill, where they find Mr. Conductor. Percy discovers that Splatter and Dodge have found the Sodor entrance to the Magic Railroad and goes to warn Thomas. While traveling through the Magic Railroad to take Lilly home, Thomas discovers the missing coal truck. Lily goes to find Burnett, leaving Thomas stranded. Thomas rolls down the mountain and re-enters the Magic Railroad through another secret portal.

Burnett explains the problem getting Lady to steam to Lily. Lily suggests using a special coal from Sodor, and Burnett uses it to start Lady. Lady takes them along the Magic Railroad. Thomas and Lily return to Sodor. Diesel 10 arrives with Splatter and Dodge, who decide to stop helping him. Diesel 10 tries to cross the viaduct, but it collapses under his weight, and he falls into a barge filled with sludge.

Lily combines water from a wishing well and shavings from the Magic Railroad to make more gold dust. Mr. Conductor gives Junior his conductor's hat. Lily, Burnett, Patch and Mutt return to Shining Time, and Lady returns to the Magic Railroad while Thomas travels home into the sunset.

