In an alternate universe, heroic versions of Lex Luthor and Joker (called the Jester) steal a device called the "Quantum Trigger" from the headquarters of the Crime Syndicate. When an alarm is tripped, the Jester sacrifices himself to allow Luthor to escape from the Syndicate. Luthor escapes to the Earth of the Justice League by activating a device that enables interdimensional travel. 

The Justice League is summoned to a prison where Luthor is kept, and Superman's x-ray vision confirms Luthor's reversed organs indicate that he is from a parallel Earth. The Justice League take the alternate Luthor to the Watchtower, where they learn of the Syndicate threat. As the Justice League debates the matter, Luthor hides the Quantum Trigger on the satellite. With the exception of Batman, the rest of the Justice League travel to Luthor's Earth. 

Upon arrival, the heroes attack Syndicate targets. After a successful series of raids in which they capture Ultraman, the League confronts President Slade Wilson, who releases Ultraman and explains that acceding to the Syndicate's demands saves millions of lives. Martian Manhunter, in turn, falls in love with President Wilson’s daughter, Rose. Superwoman and three of her lieutenants arrive at the League's dimension, and on the Watchtower, battle the rest of the Justice League, including Batman. They escape with the Quantum Trigger, but Batman follows them, battles Superwoman on the Syndicate’s Earth and captures her. Rose learns of the Syndicate base to allow the Justice League to confront them. The League arrives at the Crime Syndicate's moon base with Superwoman, and eventually battles the Syndicate. 

Owlman, in secret, has developed a weapon, the Quantum Eigenstate Device (Q.E.D.), Believing the idea that nothing they do can possibly matter, he teleports to Earth Prime to destroy reality. Luthor speculates that a speedster might be able to vibrate and match the Q.E.D.'s temporal vibration and open a portal. After Batman forbids Flash from doing so, Johnny Quick volunteers. Batman pursues Owlman and duels him. At the end of the fight, Batman teleports Owlman and the Q.E.D. to another uninhabited Earth, where the device detonates, killing Owlman.

Batman returns to the Syndicate's Earth, where Quick dies from the strain of acting as a vibratory conduit. President Wilson arrests the rest of the Crime Syndicate, and Martian Manhunter says goodbye to Rose to return with the Justice League. Upon returning to their Earth, Batman and Superman discuss a membership drive for the Justice League.

