Rin (Yumi Sugimoto) is an unassuming and awkward high school student who is bullied at school. One day, while being bullied, she feels a sharp pain in her hand. Later, Rin learns that she is a descendant of the ancient Hiruko clan, whose members are mutants gifted with superpowers. A group of anti-Hiruko soldiers raids her home and kills her parents, while Rin barely escapes. 

After killing an entire shopping district out of misunderstanding and grief-fueled rage, Rin meets Rei (Yuko Takayama), another mutant. Rei introduces Rin to a small rag-tag group of mutant rebels led by a transvestite samurai named Kisaragi (Tak Sakaguchi), who is bent on restoring the Hiruko clan.

Under the instructions of Kisaragi and Rei, Rin wears an iron mask until she can control her powers and begins training. The tentacle-armed Yoshie (Suzuka Morita) tells Rin about Rei's past. Until three years ago, Rei had been a freak at a circus, with the only person to show her compassion and acceptance being a boy who gave her a gold cross necklace.  When the townsfolk killed the boy for loving her, Rei's hatred for humans was born.  Rin later finds the necklace after Rei accidentally drops it after a training session.

When Rin achieves control over her powers much sooner than Kisaragi had expected, he orders her, along with Yoshie, to infiltrate an anti-Hiruko conference and attack a high-ranking general named Koshimizu. Rin and Yoshie successfully take out Koshimizu but are unwilling to kill innocent surviving humans. Rei, under Kisaragi's orders, kills the survivors.

Eventually, Rin realizes that, in spite of everything that has happened, she cannot turn against her human side. She persuades Yoshie to join in her cause to protect innocent humans rather than kill or subjugate them. Meanwhile, other Hiruko schoolgirls are being brainwashed to carry out suicide bomb attacks at various locations to kill humans. Kisaragi kidnaps and drains the blood of the fervently anti-Hiruko prime minister, which grants him a grotesque super-powered body. Yoshie takes on the brainwashed mutant schoolgirls while Rin faces off against Rei. Rin returns Rei's treasured gold cross necklace and triggers fond memories of the human boy who loved her. With it Rin convinces Rei to stop her war on humans.

Rin, Rei, and Yoshie team up to defeat Kisaragi and rescue the prime minister. However, after the man insults them, the three girls kill him as the credits roll.

