D'Artagnan, a young man from Gascony, is almost killed trying to stop a young woman from being kidnapped, by a mysterious older woman and her henchmen. He then travels to Paris to join the Musketeers of the Guard. D'Artagnan visits Capitaine de Tréville, commander of the musketeers at its headquarters. Tréville, who knew D'Artagnan's late father, says he will write him a letter of introduction. D'Artagnan sees one of the men who tried to kill him in the street below, and rushes out of the building to confront him, but, in so doing, unintentionally offends three musketeers, Athos, Porthos and Aramis, who each demand satisfaction; D'Artagnan decides to fight a duel with each of them that afternoon.

As D'Artagnan prepares himself for the first duel, he realizes that Athos's seconds are Porthos and Aramis, who are astonished that the young Gascon intends to duel them all. They admire and respect his fearlessness. As D'Artagnan and Athos begin, Cardinal Richelieu's guards appear and attempt to arrest D'Artagnan and the three musketeers for illegal dueling. Although they are outnumbered four to five, the four men win the battle. After learning of this, King Louis XIII of France upbraids the musketeers. D'Artagnan becomes friends with The Three Musketeers and discovers that Porthos is bisexual. He finds lodgings and falls in love at first sight with Constance Bonacieux, a sentiment which she quickly comes to reciprocate. She works for Queen Anne of France, who is secretly having an affair with the English Duke of Buckingham, and thus cheating on her husband, Louis XIII, and such betrayal, if discovered, which is what Cardinal Richelieu desires, would lead to her beheading.

Many of the king's advisers and his younger brother are urging him to fight the Protestants rebels at La Rochelle. Richelieu plots with the mysterious older woman, called Milady, to undermine the Queen.

Athos is falsely accused of murdering a young prostitute (who is found totally naked, with mutliple stab wounds, next to him in bed) and sentenced to death. D'Artagnan realises it was the young woman he tried to save from being kidnapped, and the musketeers resolve to find out who she is, so they can save Athos. D'Artagnan goes to the House of Valcour to talk to a family they believe is connected to the woman. Milady is there pretending to be a member of the family. Milady attempts to kill him, but D'Artagnan eludes her. Athos is freed on the way to his execution by his younger brother, Benjamin, who is in hiding with his seceding Protestant allies, Saint-Blancard and Brandicourt.

The King gives the queen a gift of diamonds, but she gives them to her lover, Lord Buckingham, as a keepsake. The King hears rumors of the affair and demands that the queen wear the diamonds to his brother's wedding. Constance sends D'Artagnan to England to fetch the diamonds from Buckingham. Milady steals them from Buckingham but D'Artagnan chases after her and retrieves them. Milady jumps off a cliff to get away. D'Artagnan returns the jewels to Queen Anne just in time to save her honor.

At the wedding of Gaston, Duke of Orléans and Marie de Bourbon, Duchess of Montpensier, Huguenots rebels, including Athos' brother, try to assassinate the King, but Athos and the rest of the musketeers save him. The King pardons Athos.

At the end, D'Artagnan is knocked unconscious in a street by one of Milady's henchmen whilst trying to save Constance from being kidnapped.

In a mid-credits scene, Milady is seen speaking with Richelieu and she mentions the problems the musketeers caused to her mission.

