After Berke Landers' girlfriend Allison breaks up with him, he tries to win her back by auditioning for the school play, despite having no theatrical talent. Meanwhile, his friends Felix and Dennis try to find him a new girlfriend.

With the help of Felix's younger sister Kelly, Berke wins a minor role in the play, a modern musical version of Shakespeare's comedy ''A Midsummer Night's Dream'' called ''A Midsummer Night's Rockin' Eve'', written and directed by the school's domineering drama teacher, Dr. Desmond Oates. When one of the leads, the school's star actor Peter Wong, is injured in a freak accident, Berke takes over Wong's role of Lysander. He gradually improves with continuing assistance from Kelly, unaware of the growing attraction between them.

At a party thrown by Felix at Berke's house, Kelly kisses Berke, but he insists that a relationship between them could not work as she is Felix's sister. At the same party, Berke and Allison catch her new boyfriend Bentley "Striker" Scrumfeld cheating on her with her best friend Maggie. Allison breaks up with Striker.

During the intermission on the play's opening night, Allison confides to Berke that she wants to get back together with him. Meanwhile, Striker bribes two of the theater technicians to try to blow Berke off the stage using stage pyrotechnics. Before the play resumes, Felix gives the orchestra sheet music for a love ballad written by Kelly to replace Oates' unpopular tune.

When the curtain rises, Kelly sings her song so beautifully that Berke finally realizes he loves her. He abandons his lines from the script and improvises his own verse professing his character's love for Kelly's character Helena. The audience applauds as Berke and Kelly kiss. Striker protests this change, but unwittingly signals the technicians to set off the explosion, blowing him offstage and into the orchestral section.

Dennis kisses Kelly's friend and his dancing partner Basin, who kisses him back, suggesting that they also begin a relationship. Kelly and Berke leave the theater looking forward to their future together.

The film ends with Sisqó and Vitamin C singing and dancing along with the cast to the song "September" as the credits roll.

