Dante Hicks and Randal Graves (''Clerks'') put a restraining order on Jay and Silent Bob, finally fed up with their drug dealing antics outside the Quick Stop and RST Video after the duo tell a pair of teenagers that Dante and Randal were married in a Star Wars themed wedding. Not allowed within 100 feet of either stores for at least a year, Jay and Silent Bob visit Brodie Bruce (''Mallrats'') at his comic shop where they learn that Miramax Films is adapting ''Bluntman and Chronic'', the comic book based on their likenesses. 

The pair visit Holden McNeil (''Chasing Amy''), co-creator and co-writer of ''Bluntman and Chronic'', and demand him to give them their royalties from the film, but Holden explains he sold his half of the rights to co-creator and artist Banky Edwards. Seeing the film's negative reception online,<ref>{{cite web |url=http://asitecalledfred.com/old/story.html |title=Movie Poop Shoot - the Poop Scoop |access-date=2013-07-03 |url-status=dead |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20120626183925/http://www.asitecalledfred.com/old/story.html |archive-date=June 26, 2012 |df=mdy-all }}</ref> the pair set out for Hollywood to prevent the film from tainting their image, or at least to receive the royalties owed to them.

En route, they befriend an animal liberation group: Justice, Sissy, Missy, Chrissy, and Brent. The organization is a front; Brent is a patsy, who will free animals from a laboratory as a diversion while the girls rob a diamond depository. Jay throws Brent out of the van to get closer to Justice, to whom he is attracted to. Justice is fond of the pair, but reluctantly accepts them as new patsies.

While the girls steal the diamonds, Jay and Silent Bob free the animals, stealing an orangutan named Suzanne. They escape as the police arrive and the van explodes, believing the girls have perished.

Federal Wildlife Marshal Willenholly (whose name is taken from ''Land of the Lost'' characters {{ref|b}}) arrives at the crime scene; oblivious to the diamond heist, he claims jurisdiction due to the escaped animals, all of which have been recovered but the orangutan. 

The officers find footage of a video Sissy recorded of Jay claiming to be "the clit commander", with accompanying literature that "Clit" is an acronym for ''Coalition for the Liberation of Itinerant Tree-Dwellers''. In an interview with Reg Hartner on TV, Willenholly declares the crime an act of terrorism and calls for backup to hunt "the two most dangerous men on the planet."

Hiding inside a diner, the pair dress Suzanne as a child and pretend to be a gay couple, with Suzanne as their kid. Willenholly, not wanting to face the political repercussions of "arresting a gay couple", lets them leave but quickly catches on and resumes pursuit. The pair jump into a sewer system, and Willenholly is tricked into jumping off a dam.

Suzanne is abducted by a Hollywood animal acting agency called "Critters of Hollywood". Jay laments that they will never see Suzanne again, only to have Silent Bob angrily, and loudly, explain that the sign on the car (also calling Jay a dumbfuck for not getting what Silent Bob's gesturing right after Suzanne was stolen was about) indicated that they will probably meet up with Suzanne in Hollywood. The duo then hitch a ride and arrive in Hollywood. When they get to the Miramax lot, they find themselves in the background of an ''E! News'' newscast with Steve Kmetko and Jules Asner about the online threat the duo sent against the studio earlier in the film. Watching the news, Justice heads off to Hollywood to fix things, taking the diamonds with her, with Willenholly close behind.

Chased by studio security guard Gordon through the Miramax lot and several movie sets, including ''Good Will Hunting 2: Hunting Season'', and reclaiming Suzanne from the set of ''Scream 4'', Jay and Silent Bob end up in the dressing room of Jason Biggs and James Van Der Beek, the actors playing Bluntman and Chronic respectively in the film. Suzanne beats up the actors, knocking them out, and Jay and Silent Bob assume the roles while Van Der Beek and Biggs are arrested after getting mistaken for the duo.

Meeting the film's racist director Chaka Luther King, who mistakes them for Biggs and Van Der Beek's stunt doubles, Jay and Silent Bob are then escorted onto the set and forced to fight Mark Hamill, playing the supervillain of the film Cocknocker (a combination of Hamill's roles as The Joker, The Trickster, and Luke Skywalker) in a Star Wars-esque battle. Willenholly, armed with a shotgun, arrives to capture the pair, but Justice protects them, admitting the CLIT organization was only a diversion.

The other thieves arrive and a climactic gun fight ensues. Jay and Silent Bob locate Banky and demand their royalty money. Banky at first refuses on account of the large sum of money that Miramax paid him for the film. Silent Bob then informs Banky that he violated their original likeness rights contract by not getting their permission for the film before selling the film rights of Bluntman and Chronic to Miramax, and therefore could face serious legal troubles if he doesn't meet their demands. Banky finally relents and agrees to give the duo half of what he makes from the movie. Justice then turns herself and her former team in to Willenholly in exchange for a shorter sentence and freeing Jay and Silent Bob.

While they wait for the Quick Stop restraining order to expire, Jay and Silent Bob spend their royalty money locating everyone who expressed negative opinions on the internet about the movie and their characters, including children and members of the clergy, and travel to assault them. The scene cuts to the El Rey theater where a bunch of people exit, including Dante, Randal, Banky, Steve-Dave Pulski, Walt "The Fanboy" Grover, Willam Black, Hooper LaMonte, and sisters Alyssa and Tricia Jones, having just watched the Bluntman and Chronic movie, to poor reception. Jay and Silent Bob, accompanied by Justice and Willenholly (now an FBI agent), go across the street to enjoy the after party, featuring a performance from Morris Day and The Time.

After the credits, God (''Dogma'') closes the View Askewniverse book.{{ref|a}}

