The members of successful boy band DuJour, signed to the pop music record label MegaRecords, confront Wyatt Frame, an executive with the label, on their private jet, expressing innocent concern about a strange backing track they have discovered on their recent single "DuJour Around the World". After the band members get into a fight, Wyatt and the plane's pilot parachute out of the jet, leaving it to crash with the band still on board, presumably "killing" them.

Landing outside the town of Riverdale, Wyatt begins searching for a replacement band for DuJour, eventually discovering struggling local rock band The Pussycats: lead vocalist and guitarist Josie McCoy, drummer Melody Valentine, and bassist and backup vocalist Valerie Brown. The group accepts Wyatt's immediate offer of a major record deal despite its seeming implausibility, and they are soon flown to New York City with their manager Alexander Cabot, his sister Alexandra, and Josie's love interest Alan M. Wyatt renames the band "Josie and the Pussycats" without their permission, making them very uncomfortable. Meanwhile, MegaRecords CEO Fiona, in an underground meeting with world government representatives, details how the United States government has conspired with the music industry to hide subliminal messages in pop music to indoctrinate teenagers into buying consumer products as part of a new trend each week, thus helping to build a robust economy from the money the teenagers earn from minimum wage jobs such as babysitting. Musicians who discover the hidden messages are made to disappear via staged plane crashes, drug overdoses and similar disasters.

The band's first single "Pretend to Be Nice" is released and, due to subliminal messaging, instantly becomes successful, soon topping the charts. However, Valerie increasingly resents the attention the label gives Josie rather than the band as a whole, while Melody's uncanny behavioral perception makes her suspicious of Fiona and Wyatt. Fiona orders Wyatt to kill the pair before they uncover the conspiracy; they are sent to a fake appearance on MTV's ''Total Request Live'' where two Carson Daly impersonaters attempt to kill them with baseball bats, though the girls survive due to their attackers' incompetence. Rather than allow her to attend a gig by Alan M, claiming it was canceled, Wyatt instead gives Josie a copy of the group's latest single "You Don't See Me", which contains a subliminal message track designed to brainwash her into desiring a solo career. After arguing with her bandmates, Josie realizes that the single caused the fight. Her suspicions are confirmed when she uses a mixing board to amplify the subliminal track. However, Fiona catches her unawares.

MegaRecords have organized a giant pay-per-view concert that will be streamed online, wherein they plan to unleash a major subliminal message via themed cat-ears headsets that viewers must buy to hear the audio. Fiona and Wyatt plan for Josie to perform solo, but when the band insists on performing together, the pair hold Melody and Valerie hostage, threatening to kill them in a staged car explosion if they do not comply. However, the badly injured members of DuJour arrive and thwart the pair's plan, having survived the plane crash by landing the plane in the middle of a Metallica concert, where they were severely assaulted by fans.

The trio fight Fiona, Wyatt and their security guards; during the tussle, Josie accidentally destroys the machine used to generate the messages, revealing the new subliminal message to be one that would make Fiona universally popular. Fiona suffers a breakdown and reveals that her lisp made her a social outcast in high school, while Wyatt reveals that his appearance is a disguise—he went to the same high school as Fiona, but was a persecuted and unpopular albino; the two immediately bond. The government agents colluding with Fiona arrive, but with the conspiracy exposed, they arrest the pair as scapegoats to cover up their involvement in the scheme. They abandon the idea of spreading subliminal messages via music, deciding that movies are far more effective.

Josie, Valerie, and Melody perform the concert together. Alan M arrives and confesses his love for Josie, who returns his feelings. The concert audience removes their headsets at Josie's suggestion and, able to judge the band on its own merits for the first time, roar their approval.

