In the stereotypical high school community of John Hughes High in Southern California, Priscilla, head cheerleader, separates from her football star but slacker boyfriend, Jake Wyler. Discovering she is now dating timid and weird Les to spite him, one of Jake's friends, Austin, makes a bet with him to turn nerdy Janey Briggs, a "uniquely rebellious girl", into the prom queen. Janey resists his efforts because she is not insecure enough to feel any need to change anything about herself, nor does she feel anything for him at first, but that does not stop him from trying.

As Jake attempts to court Janey, he faces adversity from his own sister, Catherine, who is sexually attracted to him; Janey's unnoticed admirer and best friend, Ricky Lipman; and memories from his past football career. Catherine eventually assists him by "drastically" altering Janey's appearance (simply removing her glasses and ponytail), instantly making her drop-dead gorgeous.

Meanwhile, Janey's younger brother, Mitch, and his friends Ox and Bruce, make a pact to lose their virginity by graduation. Mitch tries to impress his longtime crush, Amanda Becker with a love letter. Bruce says that he does not have a chance with her, saying, "Keep dreaming!"

As the prom draws near, Jake becomes known for failing to lead the football team to victory at last year's state championship game. Austin then tricks Jake into telling Janey about his bet to spite Priscilla, pretending to whisper the secret bet in Janey's ear, causing her to immediately leave upset. On prom night, Austin and Janey go together; a jealous Jake and Catherine have a dance-off with Austin and Janey, with Catherine dancing in a sexual manner. Janey runs off crying.

Meanwhile, Mitch and his friends are having a lousy time until Amanda arrives and Mitch gives her the letter (to which she responds she does not have sex with every loser who does such, but gives them handjobs), Bruce hooks up with the international exchange student Areola, and Ox later hooks up with Catherine after sharing a romantic and rather odd connection.

Jake is awarded prom king and the votes for prom queen are tied. Everyone thinks that it is between Janey and Priscilla, but they are shocked to find that conjoined twins Kara and Sara Fratelli win prom queen. During the traditional prom king and queen dance, Janey supposedly left with Austin to go to a hotel.

Jake goes to the hotel room where he finds Austin having sex with a girl, but is shocked to find that it is Priscilla and not Janey, while Les videotapes them with his pants down.  Austin tells Jake that Janey "ran home to her daddy." Jake coldly punches Austin and Priscilla, knocking them unconscious for humiliating Janey. He then punches Les for "being really weird" (and punches a plastic bag floating next to Les); afterwards he runs to Janey's only be told she is on her way to Paris to art school.

Jake arrives at the airport and confronts her before she boards the plane, but uses a plethora of clichéd lines from other films (such as ''She's All That'', ''Cruel Intentions'', ''American Pie'', ''The Breakfast Club'', ''American Beauty'', ''10 Things I Hate About You'', ''Can't Hardly Wait'', and ''Pretty in Pink'') to convince her to not go. His final (and only original) speech suggests they would be better off separated, but Janey mistakenly believes he is quoting ''The Karate Kid'', and she decides to stay with him.

In a mid-credits scene, Janey's father Mr. Briggs drunkenly assaults himself with pies in his kitchen. In a post-credits scene, a previously seen albino folk singer, an afroed student with a guitar, reveals that she has become blind and calls out for assistance upon completing her song, while an audience member calls for another to assist in stealing her guitar.

