Frank DeTorri is an unhealthy zookeeper widower at Sucat Memorial Zoo in Rhode Island. He copes with the death of his wife Maggie by overeating and foregoing basic hygiene, much to his daughter Shane's embarrassment. Inside his body, called the "City of Frank" by its anthropomorphic inhabitants, white blood cell Osmosis "Ozzy" Jones is a quick-witted officer of the Frank Police Department whose attempts to catch germs end up causing trouble in Frank's body.

One day, desperate to be re-elected, the corrupt Mayor Phlegmming doubles down on his junk food policies, ignoring their effect on Frank's health. This induces Frank to eat a boiled egg that fell into a chimpanzee's habitat, allowing Thrax, a virus known as "La Muerte Roja" ("The Red Death"), to enter his body. To placate his secretary Leah Estrogen, Phlegmming instructs Frank to take a cold pill, Special Agent Drixenol "Drix" Drixobenzometaphedramine, who disinfects the throat but unknowingly covers up evidence of Thrax's arrival. Ozzy is ordered to assist Drix's investigation while Thrax takes over a gang of sweat germs run by local crime boss Scabies and attacks the dam in Frank's nose, nearly killing Drix before Ozzy saves him.

Ozzy and Drix get into an argument, but after Ozzy reveals Thrax and his gang as the cause of the mucus dam breakage, Drix sticks with Ozzy. Ozzy tells Drix the reason for his poor reputation: Two years ago, Ozzy induced Frank to vomit a contaminated oyster onto Shane's science and P.E. teacher, Mrs. Boyd, causing Frank to be fired from his previous job at the pea soup factory and banned from visiting Shane's school, and Ozzy was demoted to patrol duty in the mouth for his role in the public humiliation. Drix agrees with Ozzy that he did the right thing, and the two pay a visit to Ozzy's informant, Chill, a flu vaccine cell who directs them to Thrax's hideout – a germ-ridden nightclub in a large zit on Frank's forehead. Ozzy goes undercover and infiltrates the gang, learning that Thrax, wanting to be known as the most dangerous virus in medical history, intends to masquerade as a common cold and use his knowledge of DNA to kill Frank within forty-eight hours. When Ozzy is discovered, Drix comes to his aid, causing a brawl which culminates in the zit being popped by a grenade. The pus lands on Mrs. Boyd's lip during a conversation with Frank, foiling his chance to apologize. Furious, Phlegmming closes the investigation, dismisses Ozzy from the force, and orders Drix to leave.

Having survived the zit's destruction, Thrax attacks the hypothalamus, stealing a crucial nucleotide before abducting Leah and preparing to flee via the mouth. His actions cause Frank to faint and develop a high fever, prompting his brother, Bob, to take him to the hospital, to Phlegmming's dismay. Ozzy discovers Thrax is alive and convinces Drix to stay. They reach Thrax in the uvula and save Leah, but Thrax uses pollen to induce Frank to sneeze him out of the mouth. Drix launches Ozzy after him, and they land on Shane's cornea. As they fight, falling onto one of Shane's false eyelashes, Ozzy tricks Thrax into trapping his hand in the lash and escapes as the lash falls into a beaker of alcohol, dissolving Thrax.

As Frank's temperature surpasses {{cvt|108|F}}, he goes into cardiac arrest. Riding one of Shane's tears back to Frank's body, Ozzy revives him with the stolen nucleotide and Frank tells Shane "Mom says 'Hi.'" Congratulated as a hero and welcomed back into the police force, Ozzy enters a relationship with Leah, while Drix is allowed to stay as his new partner. Frank commits to a healthier lifestyle, leading Phlegmming to lose the election in a landslide to his opponent, Tom Colonic. Reduced to janitorial duty in the bowels, Phlegmming foolishly ignores a notice not to push a button that triggers Frank's flatulence, ejecting himself from the body in the process.

