Eccentric tycoon Donald Sinclair devises a game to entertain the high rollers who visit his Las Vegas casino. He arranges for six competitors to race the {{convert| 563 |miles|km|abbr=out}} to Silver City, New Mexico, where $2 million is in a train station locker. Sinclair's guests place bets on who will win.

The racers consist of dimwitted con-artist brothers Duane and Blaine Cody, uptight businesswoman Merrill Jennings and her overly optimistic mother Vera, disgraced football referee Owen Templeton, gambling addict Randy Pear and his family, narcoleptic Italian tourist Enrico Pollini, and no-nonsense attorney Nick Schaffer. Having initially agreed not to play, greed takes over and they start to race.

Duane and Blaine destroy the airport radar, grounding everybody else, but wrecking their vehicle so they steal another. They split up to better their chances. They have a locksmith create a duplicate locker key but he overhears their plan and makes off with the key in a hot air balloon. The brothers catch him and leave him and a stray cow hanging from the balloon's anchor rope. When Blaine got attracted to a girl who has similar piercings like him while driving, their car is crushed by a monster truck, which they then steal.

Merrill and Vera are given malicious directions and crash. They steal a rocket car until it runs out of fuel, then stumble onto a busload of mental patients headed for Silver City.

Owen is kicked out of a taxi and pantsed for his bad call at a football game that caused the driver to lose his bet. He impersonates the driver of a busload of Lucille Ball cosplayers. He hits the cow dangling from the balloon and crashes. He reveals that he is not the real driver and the enraged women chase him. He escapes and steals a horse to ride to Silver City.

Randy and his family, at the insistence of their daughter, visit a museum about the Nazi German officer Klaus Barbie, believing it to be about the Barbie doll. They steal Adolf Hitler's staff car after Duane and Blaine sabotage their vehicle. When his family insist they end the trip, Randy drugs them with sleeping pills and bundles them into a semi-truck.

Nick chooses not to participate but changes his mind when he meets Tracy Faucet, who gives him a lift in her helicopter. She uses it to attack her cheating boyfriend, then having damaged the helicopter she and Nick steal the boyfriend's truck and form a romantic relationship while driving to Silver City.

Enrico is more excited by the race than the money, but falls asleep at the start, only waking hours later. He receives a ride from Zack Mallozzi, an ambulance driver delivering a transplant heart. Enrico inadvertently drops the heart out of the window, whereupon it is stolen by a dog, which is then electrocuted on an electric fence. Zack decides to kill Enrico to replace the missing heart. Enrico escapes by boarding a passing train, then he drops his key in a baby's diaper. Upon retrieving it, he is mistaken for a pedophile. He is thrown out at Silver City station and is the first to reach the locker, only to fall asleep upon unlocking it.

The racers reunite in Silver City and fight to open the locker only to find it empty. Outside, Sinclair's assistant Grisham and call girl Vicki are making off with the money. The locksmith maneuvers the balloon to drop the cow on Grisham and ties the money bag to the balloon. The racers chase the balloon in a tour bus to a Smash Mouth charity concert. The band and crowd mistake the money for a donation. Once the racers see the charitable good spirit engendered, they are persuaded to donate. However, the Cody brothers want to keep the money they have in their hands for themselves, but Blaine finds the same pierced girl he met before in the audience and convinced by her satisfaction and seduction, he gives his money away. Duane still arrogantly refuses, until Blaine persuades his brother to do it for their late mother whom he claims she would do the same thing, to that end Duane gives the last of the money away, gladly accepting the crowd's cheers. Nick horrifies Sinclair and his patrons by announcing that Sinclair and the gamblers will match the money raised. Sinclair is distraught as the donations total shoots past $19 million while the racers dance to "All Star".

