The film's plot is often compared to Pier Paolo Pasolini's ''Teorema'', in which a strange visitor to a wealthy family seduces the maid, the son, the mother, the daughter, and finally the father, before leaving a few days after, subsequently changing their lives.<ref>{{cite web|author=Dennis Schwartz |url=http://homepages.sover.net/~ozus/visitorq.htm |title=visitorq |publisher=Homepages.sover.net |date=2006-05-25 |access-date=2013-10-06}}</ref>

The film starts off with a question: "Have you ever done it with your Dad?"; the viewer then sees Miki Yamazaki, a young prostitute, trying to persuade her father, Kiyoshi, into having sex with her.  Her father is videotaping the scene for a documentary he is preparing on Japanese youths. Though he is disgusted with himself for considering it, Kiyoshi agrees to the act, and Miki charges him 50,000 yen. The two have sex, but Kiyoshi suffers from premature ejaculation. Miki mocks him, calling him a 'minuteman', and then doubles her price because of his failure.

In the next scene, called "Have you ever been hit on the head?", Kiyoshi waits for the train at a local train station. Outside, a man wearing a red shirt, the titular Visitor Q, is smoking. As Kiyoshi remains unaware of the Visitor's presence, the Visitor grabs a rock from the ground, opens a window and hits Kiyoshi over the head with it, knocking him unconscious.

The film then moves on to a scene titled "Have you ever hit your mom?" In this scene, the mother, Keiko, is working on a jigsaw puzzle, and her hands are shown to have red marks, showing where she has been beaten.  Her teenage son, Takuya, comes in and starts throwing things at the already broken apartment walls because he is unhappy with the toothbrush his mother bought him.  He then hits his mother with a rug beater. Later, bullies from the son's school come to the front of the house and shoot fireworks through the son's bedroom window, forcing him to cower on the floor. Meanwhile, the mother prepares and injects a dose of heroin.

On his way back from work, the father crosses paths with the Visitor again, who hits him over the head with a rock as in their first encounter. The two arrive at the father's home, and the mother serves them dinner. The father announces that the Visitor will be staying with the family for a while. The son comes down while they are eating and starts beating the mother again. This does not surprise or bother the father or the Visitor. Later, the father is seen watching one of his old tapes, and it turns out that he was raped by a group of teenagers.

The next day, the father is on his way to work when he sees his son being beaten and robbed by some of his schoolmates. He films it from a distance and appears very pleased with the footage.

Keiko is getting ready for work. The viewer discovers her body is covered in marks from where her son injured her. She also has a limp.

The father meets with a female co-worker (Asako Murata), who believes he is going too far in his work. The mother, working as a prostitute, is whipping a customer with a belt (at his request). She then goes to a park to buy more heroin. When Keiko returns home, she discovers the pieces from her jigsaw puzzle have been arranged so as to form a trail through the house, ending at a photograph of her daughter. The Visitor is at home, and he teaches her how to carry out lactation for the purpose of emotional and sexual pleasure.

At dinner, the mother is much happier than usual thanks to her interaction with the Visitor and has prepared a lavish meal. The son, however, is sullen and throws a bowl of hot soup at her face. Keiko refuses to be disrespected in this way, briefly leaving then returning with a carving knife. She throws it at the son, who is terrified by her new resolve, while everyone else is very pleased by this turn of events. Kiyoshi is exhilarated when the son's schoolmates start attacking his house with fireworks again, which he videotapes. The mother and the Visitor continue to eat peacefully while the son cowers in terror as shards of glass and fragments of wood dislodged by the fireworks are strewn across the hallway.

Next day, the son is bullied again. The father tapes the incident from his car with the Visitor and his female co-worker. The co-worker gets fed up with the father and tries to leave. The father follows her on foot and sexually assaults her while the Visitor, emotionally neutral, tapes the scene, neither involving himself in nor preventing the incident before him. The father unintentionally chokes his victim to death.

He takes her body back home and puts her in the greenhouse. The Visitor is still taping, at the father's instruction. The father sends the Visitor to get garbage bags from the mother. But when the Visitor asks her for them, she takes her clothes off and reveals she is dressed in a garbage bag. She then makes herself lactate and produces great quantities of milk that covers the floor while the Visitor watches from underneath an umbrella.

During this time, the husband is drawing on the woman's body to mark the best places to cut it up so the smaller pieces will fit in the bags. He tapes this for his documentary. Becoming aroused, the father has sex with the dead body. He then notices she is getting wet and is amazed that this is possible for a dead woman. When he brings his hand up, however, it is covered in feces. He then discovers that his penis is stuck inside the corpse due to rigor mortis. The mother comes out to help and rushes to the shop to buy several large bottles of vinegar. She empties the bottles into the bath with her husband and the corpse. This does not help, though, so she gives him a shot of heroin, which frees him. They are both exhilarated, and it is revealed that all of this was observed by the Visitor, who had been continuing to film them.

Later on, the couple is having fun dismembering the female co-worker's corpse when the son turns up in the front yard with the same schoolmates beating him. The parents rush out, and with great pleasure they finally kill all the bullies using the saws and knives they were using to cut the co-worker's body to pieces. Later, their son is shown lying on the floor in the puddle of milk. He thanks the Visitor for bringing his family together with his unique brand of chaos.

With the issues he witnessed now seemingly resolved, the Visitor leaves the house. While walking down a nearby street, he encounters Miki who propositions him. The Visitor readies his rock to hit her on the head, and does so off-screen. Bruised by her encounter with the Visitor, Miki returns home to find her mother clad in a tarpaulin in the greenhouse, her father nursing from her mother’s breast. She smiles and joins them.

