In 1984 East Germany, Stasi ''Hauptmann'' Gerd Wiesler, code name HGW XX/7, is ordered by his friend and superior, Lt. Col. Anton Grubitz, to spy on playwright Georg Dreyman, whose pro-communist politics and international recognition have so far kept the state from directly monitoring him. Dreyman's very appearance as a model East German mystifies Grubitz; the playwright has no known vices or record of disloyalty or dissent at all. Wiesler and his team bug Dreyman's apartment, set up surveillance equipment, and report Dreyman's activities. Wiesler subsequently learns that Dreyman's surveillance is at the request of Minister of Culture Bruno Hempf, who covets Dreyman's girlfriend, actress Christa-Maria Sieland. After an intervention by Wiesler leads to Dreyman's discovering Sieland's relationship with Hempf, he implores her not to meet him again and to be true to herself. She reconciles with Dreyman.

Dreyman's friend Albert Jerska, a blacklisted theatrical director, gives him sheet music for ''Sonate vom Guten Menschen'' (''Sonata for a Good Man''). Shortly afterwards, Jerska hangs himself. Dreyman publishes an anonymous article in prominent West German newsweekly  ''Der Spiegel'' accusing the state of concealing the country's elevated suicide rates. When Dreyman and his friends feign a defection attempt to determine whether or not his flat is bugged, a sympathetic Wiesler does not report it and the conspirators believe they are safe. Since all East German typewriters are registered and identifiable, a ''Der Spiegel'' editor smuggles Dreyman a Groma Büromaschinen Kolibri, an ultra-flat typewriter with a red ribbon, which he hides under a floorboard.

Dreyman's article angers the East German authorities but the Stasi cannot link it to a registered typewriter. Rejected by Sieland, Hempf orders Grubitz to arrest her. She is blackmailed into revealing Dreyman's authorship of the article, although the Stasi do not find the typewriter. Grubitz, suspicious of Wiesler, has him do the follow-up interrogation of Sieland. Wiesler makes Sieland reveal the typewriter's location.

When the Stasi return to Dreyman's apartment, Sieland realises that Dreyman will know she betrayed him and flees into the street and is hit by a truck. Dreyman runs after her and Sieland dies in his arms. Grubitz finds nothing beneath the floorboard, Wiesler having removed the typewriter before the search team arrived; he ends the investigation with a perfunctory apology to Dreyman. Grubitz then informs Wiesler that while the investigation is over, so is Wiesler's career; his remaining years with the Stasi will be in Department M, a dead-end assignment for disgraced agents. The same day, Mikhail Gorbachev is elected leader of the Soviet Union.

On 9 November 1989, Wiesler is steam-opening letters when news of the fall of the Berlin Wall comes on the radio. He silently gets up and leaves the office, followed by his co-workers.

Two years later, Hempf and Dreyman meet at a performance of Dreyman's play, each reflecting on life before and after German reunification. Dreyman asks why he was never monitored by the Stasi, to which Hempf replies that he had been: "We knew everything." Dreyman finds the abandoned listening devices in his apartment and rips them from the walls.

Dreyman reviews his Stasi files at the Stasi Records Agency, reading that Sieland was released just before the second search and could not have removed the typewriter. He is confused by other contradictions until, seeing a fingerprint in red ink, or maybe Sieland's blood, in the final report, he realises that the officer in charge of his surveillance{{snd}}Stasi officer HGW&nbsp;XX/7{{snd}}had removed the typewriter from his apartment and concealed his activities, including his authorship of the suicide article. He tracks down Wiesler, who now works delivering mail, but ultimately decides not to approach him.

Two years later, Wiesler passes a bookstore window display promoting Dreyman's new novel, ''Sonate vom Guten Menschen'' ("Sonata for a Good Man"). He opens a copy of the book, discovering that it is dedicated "To HGW XX/7, in gratitude". As he buys a copy, Wiesler is asked if he would like it giftwrapped. He replies: "No, it's for me."

