A sea plane flying on a stormy night malfunctions and crashes in the sea off the coast of The Bahamas.

Jared and Sam are lovers living a rustic life in a trailer, next to the beach in The Bahamas. Sam works as a guide in the local aquatic theme park, while Jared works a number of odd jobs in his field of passion, diving. His real dream is to find one of many treasure-filled merchant and pirate ships lost in the waters around The Bahamas. Derek Bates has similar dreams and a better boat, but Jared turns down repeated offers to work for him.

Jared's childhood friend, Bryce, and his girlfriend, Amanda (whom he just met the night before), come to visit. Bryce, a lawyer in New York City, has acquired the use of a luxury vacation house from a client he defended. While snorkeling, Jared finds artifacts on the sea bed that seem to stem from a ship wreck. The four of them investigate and find several other pieces that turn out to be the remains of legendary French pirate ship ''Zephyr''. They also discover the crashed plane and its cargo of cocaine—Bryce and Amanda want to recover it, but Jared refuses, dispersing the brick they retrieved into the ocean.

Needing money for equipment to salvage the treasure, Bryce and Amanda dive to the plane then try to sell a few bricks of recovered cocaine to local night club owner Primo. Primo turns out to be an associate of drug lord Reyes, to whom the cocaine belonged in the first place.

Jared, Bryce, and Amanda are threatened by Reyes, who demands that they retrieve his cocaine or face deadly consequences. When the trio inform Sam, she berates Jared for violating his principles by helping a drug lord. He tries to explain the situation, but she leaves him, saying that 'they' are over. After nightfall, Jared, Bryce, and Amanda dive at the plane wreck to salvage the cocaine and more artifacts. As they are moving the cocaine packs from the plane to their boat, Amanda is attacked and bitten on the leg by a tiger shark. They abandon the cocaine at the dive site to rush her to the hospital, where she dies. Hearing of the tragedy, Sam reunites with Jared, mourning for the loss of Amanda.

Sam insists on going to the police, and goes to the home of one of hers and Jared's close friends, a local cop named Roy. Roy turns her over to Derek Bates, knowing that he was Reyes' partner in the cocaine deal.  Primo has captured Jared and taken him aboard Reyes' ship, where they find that Bates has killed Reyes and his entire crew, eventually killing Primo and Roy (when he tries to stand up for Sam) as well. Jared manages to escape after learning that Bates killed Reyes and learns of Sam's capture when he and Bryce try to contact her.

Jared and Bryce then set out to rescue Sam from Bates's ship, now nearing the cocaine plane. Sam is handcuffed and gagged with duct tape as Jared too is tied up. As they near the cocaine plane, Jared dives into the water and escapes his bonds, hoping to lure Bates and his men into the water as well. With the help of Bryce who has managed to hide in the plane, Jared is able to kill Bates's divers at the plane with the unintentional help of sharks, while their friend Danny helps Sam dispatch the men on Bates's boat after she manages to escape her shackles. Below, Jared and Bates are the only ones left. After getting Bryce to safety, Jared confronts Bates in the plane, eventually using an air tank as a missile by hammering off the valve. Bates dodges it, but it hits the fuel tank at the back of the plane, causing a major explosion, killing Bates. Sam jumps into the water and rescues Jared who manages to escape.

Six weeks later, the trio is salvaging the ''Zephyr'' on Jared's new boat. While trying to bring an old cannon to the surface, the rope breaks and the cannon sinks back down breaking a part of the ship. Jared is ready to call it a night knowing that Sam is more important to him than treasure, but Bryce who is unwilling to give up dives in again and shouts that he has found gold, much to his friends' excitement.

