In 1850, California voted on whether to join the United States of America as a state. Zorro, formerly  Alejandro Murrieta, now known to the public as Don Alejandro De La Vega, foils a plot to steal the ballots. During the fight, he loses his mask, and two Pinkerton agents see his face. Alejandro's marriage with his wife Elena becomes strained after he refuses to stop being Zorro when the election is over. They have a fight and Alejandro moves out. The following day, the Pinkertons confront Elena. Soon after, she divorces Alejandro.

The separation from Elena and the feeling the people no longer need Zorro take a toll on Alejandro. His childhood guardian, Father Felipe, takes him to a party at the vineyard of a French Count, Armand. Alejandro discovers Elena is dating Armand, an old friend from her time in Europe. After leaving the party, Alejandro witnesses a huge explosion near Armand's mansion and becomes suspicious of him. Gunman Jacob McGivens leads an attack on Cortez, a farmer who is Alejandro's friend, to seize his land. Zorro rescues Cortez's wife and son, but Cortez is killed. 

While Elena is at Armand's mansion for a date, she slips away and investigates his secret study, discovering information about a plot involving explosives and a group called ''Orbis Unum'' (''One World'' in Latin). Zorro sneaks into the mansion and overhears Armand's discussion with McGivens about his plan to build a railroad through Cortez's land. 

The next day, Alejandro's son Joaquin sneaks out of a class field trip and hides on McGivens’s cart. Joaquin is caught by McGivens's bandits as they receive a shipment of cargo in a cove. Zorro saves Joaquin from the bandits and sees the cargo consists of bars of soap, with the phrase ''Orbis Unum'' printed on the crates. Father Felipe tells Alejandro it is the symbol of the Knights of Aragon, a secret society Armand is a member of, which has secretly ruled Europe for a thousand years. The Knights have deemed the United States a threat, and plan to destroy it.

Alejandro is captured and imprisoned by the Pinkertons. They reveal they confronted Elena with knowledge of Alejandro's identity as Zorro. They blackmailed her into divorcing him and forced her to seduce Armand and learn of the Knights' plans, without the aid of Zorro, whose vigilante ways they dislike. Because California is not yet a U.S. state, they cannot search Armand's home themselves. Joaquin frees Alejandro from captivity. 

At Armand's mansion, Zorro finds Elena. They spy on Armand as he gives a speech to the Knights, revealing the soap bars contain an ingredient for nitroglycerin. The vineyard is a cover for the production of the weapon, which will be given to the Confederate army, with the help of Confederate Colonel Beauregard, to launch a sneak attack on Washington, D.C., and destroy the Union. Zorro and Elena reconcile while he prepares to destroy the train carrying the explosives. McGivens arrives at Felipe's church to look for Zorro. Unable to find him, he shoots Felipe and kidnaps Joaquin. Armand discovers Elena's deception and takes her hostage with Joaquin. Zorro is captured and unmasked in front of his son. Armand takes Joaquin and Elena away on the train and orders McGivens to kill Alejandro. Felipe, saved from the bullet by a cross he wears, rescues Alejandro, who kills McGivens.

Zorro catches up with the train on horseback and fights Armand. Elena helps Joaquin escape, then fights Armand's henchman Ferroq and throws him from the train with a bottle of nitro, near Colonel Beauregard at their prearranged meeting point, killing them all. Further along the tracks, the governor prepares to sign the bill to make California a Union state. Joaquin rides Tornado, Zorro's horse, off the train and diverts it onto another track, away from the bill signing ceremony. Zorro sees the track is a dead end, ties Armand to the engine, and escapes with Elena. The train crashes, setting off the nitroglycerin and killing Armand.

The governor signs the bill, and California becomes the 31st U.S. state. Alejandro remarries Elena and apologizes to Joaquin for his secrecy, recognizing Zorro's identity should be a family secret. With Elena's support, Zorro rides off on Tornado to his next mission.

