Frank Martin has relocated from southern France to Miami, Florida. As a favor to a friend, he becomes a temporary chauffeur for the wealthy Billings family. Frank bonds with their son Jack, whom he drives to and from elementary school in his new Audi A8 W12. The marriage of Jefferson and Audrey Billings is under great strain due to the demands of his high-profile government job. Frank prepares for the arrival of his friend Inspector Tarconi, who has come to spend his holiday in Florida with Frank. 

When Frank takes Jack for a medical checkup, he realizes that impostors have killed and masqueraded as the doctor and receptionist. A lengthy fight erupts between thugs led by Lola; Frank manages to escape with Jack. Just as they arrive at Jack's house, he receives a phone call, informing him that he and Jack are in the sights of a sniper capable of penetrating the car's bulletproof glass. 

Forced at gunpoint to let Lola into the car, Frank speeds away with Jack, evading many pursuing police cars. They arrive at a warehouse, where Frank meets Gianni Chellini, the ringleader of the operation. Frank is ordered to leave without Jack. He discovers an explosive attached to the car and succeeds in removing it a split-second prior to detonation. Jack is returned to his family after the payment of a ransom, but unknown to them and Frank, Jack has been injected with a deadly virus that will eventually kill anyone whom the child breathes near. Suspected by everyone except Audrey of being one of the kidnappers, Frank tracks down the remaining fake doctor Dimitri with Tarconi's assistance. Frank pretends to infect Dimitri with the same virus (having failed to retrieve the injector from the doctor's office), then lets him escape. Dimitri panics and hurries to a lab to get the cure with Frank following behind. 

In his panic, Dimitri kills Tipov, another of Gianni's men, in his attempt to force the scientist in charge of the lab to give him the cure. Frank arrives and kills another henchman, then informs Dimitri that he was never infected before killing him. However, when Frank refuses to bargain with him, the scientist hurls the only two vials containing the antidote out of the window into traffic. Frank manages to retrieve only one vial intact. Frank sneaks back into the Billings home and uses the antidote on Jack. 

Meanwhile, Jefferson, the director of National Drug Control Policy, addresses the heads of many anti-drug organizations from around the world at a conference; unknowingly infecting all of them in the process. Frank drives to Gianni's home and after dispatching Gianni's many henchmen, finds that Gianni has decided to inject himself with the remaining supply of antidote as a precaution. Frank has Gianni at gunpoint as Gianni explains that the Colombian drug cartels are paying him to get rid of their enemies. He says that Frank cannot risk killing him because they would lose the antidote. An armed Lola shows up, leading to a standoff. Gianni leaves Lola to deal with Frank; which results in Frank killing her by impaling her on a wine rack. Frank tracks Gianni, who is making an escape in his helicopter, to a waiting jet. Using a Lamborghini Murcielago Roadster from Gianni's garage, Frank speeds to the airport and boards Gianni's jet by climbing onto the jet's nose gear. 

After killing the co-pilot, Frank gets into the interior of the plane and confronts Gianni, who pulls a gun on him. When they wrestle for it, a wild shot kills the pilot and the plane crash-lands in the ocean. Frank incapacitates Gianni, rendering him immobile while preserving the antidote in his system, then pushes his captive and himself out of the sinking plane just as the police converge to pick them up.

The Billings are given the antidote. When Frank visits them in the hospital, before entering their room, he sees them with Jack, who is joking with them. He silently walks back to his car, where Tarconi is waiting. He drops his friend at the airport. Frank later receives a call from a man who needs a transporter, to which he replies: "I'm listening."

