Seymour "Sy" Parrish is a photo technician at a one-hour photo in big-box store SavMart. He lives alone (with a pet hamster), has no friends or love life, and lives only for his work, which he considers a "vital service". His favorite customers are the Yorkin family, whose photos he has developed for many years. Over the years, he has grown obsessed with the family, enshrining them in his home with their photos that he secretly copies. However, as he is shy and socially inept, his attempts to become closer to the family are gently rebuffed.

Sy eventually manages to spark a connection with Nina Yorkin when he pretends to be interested in a book that he saw her purchase. Nina learns that Sy lives a solitary existence, something only her son Jake had considered previously. The next day, store manager Bill Owens discovers, through an audit investigation on company expenditures, that Sy, over the span of nine years, has printed many more prints than have been ordered and paid for. For this, as well as other infractions such as spacing out on the job, taking unauthorized 90-minute lunch breaks, giving away free merchandise (including a camera for Jake's birthday), and causing an altercation with the developing machine's repair man in front of customers, Sy is dismissed from SavMart, but Bill allows him to finish the week, though Sy is devastated. 

While inspecting a customer's photos, Sy discovers that Will Yorkin is having an affair, and his idyllic conception of the Yorkins as the perfect family is shattered. He surreptitiously places the photos of Will and his mistress, Maya Burson, into a packet of photos that Nina was scheduled to pick up. Meanwhile, Sy then takes pictures paparazzi-style of Bill's young daughter, then sends the film with the photos to Yoshi (another SavMart employee), who then turns them over to Bill - which comes across as threatening. This triggers a police investigation into Sy.

While detectives James Van Der Zee and Paul Outerbridge discover Sy's obsession, Sy confronts Will and Maya during a rendezvous in their hotel room. Armed with a knife and a camera, Sy forces the lovers to pose naked in sexual positions while he takes pictures. After the confrontation, Sy notices that the police have arrived at the hotel, and escapes through an emergency exit. The exit door trips an alarm, and Van Der Zee pursues Sy while Outerbridge finds Will and Maya physically unharmed but emotionally traumatized. The police apprehend Sy in the parking garage. Upon being arrested, Sy claims, "I just took pictures."

In the police interrogation room, Van Der Zee asks Sy why he terrorized Will and Maya. Sy says that he can tell Van Der Zee is a good father who would never commit adultery or take "disgusting, sick, degrading pictures" of his children (suggesting that Sy's own father exploited him for child pornography), and the affair between Will and Maya sparked his traumatic memory - which Sy had to avenge. Satisfied with his candid testimony, Van Der Zee expresses his appreciation. Sy then asks for the pictures that he took at the hotel. The detective gives the pictures to Sy, who displays them on the table. They appear to be only shots of objects and furnishings of a hotel room. After he is left alone in the room, Sy imagines himself as being part of a happy family picture of the Yorkins, with Will's arm around a smiling Sy.

