A Viking Age expedition arrives in North America, intending to subjugate or slaughter the native "Skræling" population. The party is itself wiped out by another native tribe, the only survivor being the Viking leader's son, who is adopted by a native woman. The boy is taken in by the local tribe and named "Ghost" for his paleness.

Fifteen years later, Ghost still lives among the tribe. Though he is socially accepted, he has yet to earn the status of a warrior. His romantic interest is Starfire, the daughter of the Pathfinder, an elderly chief of a neighboring tribe. The only remembrance he keeps of his heritage is his father's sword.

In an attack by a new group of Viking raiders, Ghost's village is destroyed and all its inhabitants killed, except a few tribesmen whom the attackers force  into single combat. Viking leader Gunnar challenges Ghost, who is still in possession of his father's sword. He defeats Ulfar, Gunnar's second in command by cutting out his eye before escaping.

Ghost is pursued by the Vikings and receives an arrow wound. He reaches the neighboring tribe and is tended to by Pathfinder and his daughter. Ghost advises the villagers to flee and departs to take on the Vikings alone. He is joined by Jester, a mute admirer who refuses to leave his side, and Starfire, who leaves the tribe for him. They defeat a few Vikings and collect their arms and armour. Pathfinder goes after his daughter and joins the fight. Eventually, both Jester and Pathfinder are executed brutally, and Ghost and Starfire are captured. The Vikings threaten to torture Starfire if Ghost will not betray the location of the other villages. Realizing that one of the villages can only be accessed through a treacherous mountain cliff, Ghost deliberately lead the Vikings to the mountain cliff, leading to the tribe. During the journey, one of the Vikings fall to his death and Ghost suggests them to tie each other off for safety purpose. As the reach the open mountain leading to the village, Ghost tells Starfire to hit him, provoking Gunnar to make him beat up Starfire to be a real man. Ghost then uses a slingshot to throw a small rock at a Viking, causing him to lose balance and leading him to drag the rest of the Viking party to fall off the cliff. Gunnar tries to kill Ghost but Ghost pushes him to fall off the cliff. While Ghost and Starfire try to cut off the rope, Gunnar clings to the mountain cliff, sacrificing Ulfar to save himself. Ghost and Gunnar fight with Ghost fatally wounding him. Gunnar tells him to send him to Valhalla and states that Ghost is just like him and the Vikings. Ghost then throws Gunnar off the cliff to his doom.  

Ghost returns to Starfire with Pathfinder's necklace, thus making Starfire the new Pathfinder after her father. Ghost, now finally respected as the bravest of the tribe and one of their own, assumes his position watching over the coast in case the Vikings ever return.

