American travel journalist Pete McKell joins a small group of tourists on a crocodile-watching river cruise in Kakadu National Park of Australia's Northern Territory, led by wildlife researcher Kate Ryan. Toward the end of the cruise, Everett spots a flare in the distance and the group head upriver to investigate. They eventually come across a half-sunken wreck when something crashes into their boat, splitting the side.

Kate manages to steer the boat ashore a small island in the middle of the river. Kate realises they are in the crocodile's territory and explains they must leave the island by nightfall, as the tide will start to rise and the island will be submerged. Moments after, Everett is pulled into the water by an unseen predator and is killed. Two locals, Neil and Collin, arrive at the island but the beast upturns their boat; Neil swims to the island while Collin is killed.

As night falls, Neil carefully swims to the riverbank in order to string a rope between two trees, creating a zip-line to allow the group to cross the river. Everett's wife Mary Ellen crosses first, only to freeze in fear halfway across. Allen, becoming impatient and hostile, attempts to get himself and his daughter Sherry across with Mary Ellen still on the line. While trying to secure the rope, Neil is attacked and killed by the beast. The tree holding the rope breaks and the three on the line fall into the water. They manage to swim back to the island, but as Allen crawls up the shore, the beast lunges out of the water and throws him back into the river, where he is dragged under. The beast is revealed to be a giant saltwater crocodile.

Later that night, Pete suggests hooking the croc while everyone else swims to the riverbank; Neil's two dead birds replace Kate's dog named Kevin, the initial bait idea. After a long wait, the anchor is suddenly pulled and the group make a break for the far shore. The croc eventually lets go of the bait, seizes Kate and drags her underwater. Pete hurries across the river with Kevin in tow and into the bush behind the others.

As day breaks, Pete is forced to chase Kevin into the bush after he runs off. He falls down a narrow chute into a large cave, where he discovers Neil's partial corpse. The cave is the croc's lair and the dog leads him to a severely injured Kate. Pete attempts to carry her out but Kevin runs off to the head of the cave, where it is heard being seized by the croc. After several attempts on them both, the croc takes a chunk out of Pete's hand while he stabs one of the croc's eyes with a piece of a broken bone. Pete eventually props a large broken log against a boulder, with the sharp end pointing outwards, so when the croc lunges at him, it is impaled and dies. Pete escapes from the cave with Kate and finds the tourists and paramedics.

A newspaper article later details Pete's heroic battle with the crocodile and rescue of Kate

