Doug Madsen, Woody Stevens, Bobby Davis, and Dudley Frank are disillusioned middle-aged everymen in a Cincinnati suburb. Doug is a dentist with trouble bonding with his son Billy; Dudley is a single computer programmer afraid to talk to women; Bobby is a henpecked plumber disrespected by his wife Karen and daughters; and Woody is a wealthy lawyer married to a supermodel.

They escape their routine lives on weekends by riding in their motorcycle club, the Wild Hogs.

Woody's wife is divorcing him, rendering him bankrupt so he convinces the other three to take a road trip to California. After several encounters on the trip they run into a roadhouse bar where they encounter the Del Fuegos, an outlaw biker gang headed by Jack Blade. Feeling disrespected by the Wild Hogs, Jack steals Dudley's bike, so he has to travel in a sidecar.

Woody suggests they return to the bar to get Dudley's bike back but no one joins him. He secretly retrieves the bike and cuts the fuel lines of the gang's bikes, falsely telling the others he threatened a lawsuit. The Del Fuegos attempt to pursue the Wild Hogs to no avail. Jack's dropped cigarette ignites the leaking fuel and burns the bar down. The Wild Hogs run out of gas and push their bikes to Madrid, New Mexico, where they are initially mistaken for the Del Fuegos. They learn that the Del Fuegos have been terrorizing the town, and Dudley falls in love with the diner owner Maggie.

Two Del Fuegos, however, spot them, reporting their location to Jack. He tells them not to harm the Wild Hogs until he gets there, leaving them unable to fight back when Bobby confronts the pair and scares them off. The Wild Hogs are hailed as heroes and celebrate well into the night.

The next day, the Wild Hogs' departure is interrupted by the arrival of the Del Fuegos. Jack threatens to wreck the town unless the Wild Hogs pay for their bar. Woody admits to the others what he did to get Dudley's bike back, as well as his real reason for the trip - his bankruptcy. Jack and the Del Fuegos take over Maggie's diner and threaten to burn it but Dudley confronts them; he is held hostage.

After failing to rescue Dudley, the Wild Hogs then decide to fight four of the members (Jack, Red, Murdock, and "Tiny" a member trained in martial arts); the Wild Hogs are badly beaten but refuse to give up. The townspeople band together and just as Jack threatens to take on the rest of the town, Damien Blade, Jack's father and the founder of the Del Fuegos, arrives, and lectures Jack for his behavior. He also reveals the bar (which he had built) was an insurance scam, and says the Wild Hogs did him a favor by destroying it. Damien says it is a good opportunity for the gang to ride the open road as intended.

Doug's and Bobby's wives arrive, and Doug reconciles with Billy. Karen orders Bobby to return with her, but he convinces her to let him finish the ride. The Wild Hogs arrive in Southern California where everyone except Dudley crashes into a surfboard. During the credits, it is revealed that the Wild Hogs called ''Extreme Makeover: Home Edition'' to give the Del Fuegos a new bar. The Del Fuegos react in joy while the Wild Hogs watch the event on television.

