Guy Carter (Jason Biggs) is an unemployed architect struggling to make ends meet. With bills piling up, his wife Anne (Jenny Mollen) finds a job posting on Craigslist for a driver and sends Guy, against his will, for the job. Guy then goes for the interview expecting to be a pizza driver but finds himself as a chauffeur for a prostitute named Nikki (Janet Montgomery).

Nikki tells Guy that their first stop would be a regular of hers, a kinky doctor in Bel Air (Steven Weber). She tells Guy to wait in the car for her but when she doesn't respond for hours, Guy decides to break into the house. He finds Nikki in a compromising bondage position and thinks that the doctor is torturing Nikki, and tries to rescue her by spraying him with air freshener. They both then flee from the scene after the doctor falls over the ground and hits his head.

Guy is horrified by the situation but is calmed down by Nikki. She then informs him about the duties that came with the job and that he gets a cut of the "take", which prompts Guy to now be very interested in the job. They then proceed to pick up two other prostitutes, Jaxi (Bria Murphy) and Fallon (Ashley Tisdale), for a bachelor party. At the house, Guy is ordered to wash the "hardware," referring to a large bag filled with very messy sex toys.

The four then head to a fancy hotel in Beverly Hills for the bachelor party. The party is filled with over excited testosterone-driven former frat boys. The girls then appoint Guy to play "pimp" to get the frat boys in line. What follows is various strip teases and sexually explicit dancing, followed by a "main event," involving Fallon ejaculating directly on Guy.

Guy leaves the party momentarily when Anne goes into false labor. To his dismay, he runs into the doctor he assaulted, who ends up holding him hostage with a syringe filled with a paralyzing drug, and orders Guy to take him to Nikki. At their arrival, the doctor's plans are foiled when Nikki causes him to stab himself with the syringe. The bachelor party then resumes at full speed but comes to a halt when the girls find themselves robbed. The girls then hold the entire bachelor party at gun point, demanding the return of their money. They chase the culprit down long halls and end up urinating on him before taking back their money.

As they leave the hotel, one of the bachelor party guy approaches Nikki and asks for a "quickie." It is then revealed that he is an undercover cop and he attempts to arrest Nikki. This prompts Guy to once again rescue her and they are caught in a cop car chase. The four manage to escape the cops but end up crashing Guy's car. They continue to escape on a bus.
 
They return, exhausted, to their homes in the early morning. Nikki thanks Guy by hiring him to design a house for her and tells him the "hardware" will be awaiting him for the next round. Guy expects arresting cops to be at his house but it turns out his car was found by "repo men" and hauled away before the cops could find it.

Being based on a true story, the credits play over scenes that actually took place.

