Jason Kelly is a corporate lawyer in Atlanta who works for his father's law firm. When Jason's grandmother dies, his U.S. Army veteran grandfather, Lt. Colonel Richard "Dick" Kelly, asks him to drive him to Boca Raton, Florida, due to his driver’s license being suspended. Jason is marrying his controlling fiancée Meredith in one week, but despite his apprehension agrees to take his grandfather.

At a roadside diner they meet Jason's old photography classmate, Shadia, along with her friends Lenore and Bradley. After learning that Lenore wants to have sex with a college professor, Dick tells them that he is a university professor and that Jason is a photographer for ''Time''. They initially go their separate ways, but Dick convinces Jason that they should meet the girls at Daytona Beach as Dick wants to have sex with Lenore. The two go to a golf course, where Dick flirts with two women much to Jason's annoyance.

At Daytona, they meet up with the girls and their friends, Cody and Brah, with whom they compete in beer chugging. Dick secretly slips Xanax into Jason's beer. That night, a drunk Jason, wearing nothing but a hornet fanny pack, parties and accidentally smokes crack cocaine from drug dealer Pam. He steals a motorcycle and wakes up the next day on the beach. 

During an awkward FaceTime session with Meredith and his family, a toddler grabs the fanny pack and takes it off; the boy's father calls the police who promptly arrest Jason. Dick bails him out, and Jason attempts to leave Dick with his old Army friend Stinky in a nursing home. But they learn he is dying, Dick persuades Jason to stay in Daytona until he is able to sleep with Lenore.

They enter into a muscle flexing contest with Cody and Brah; but Jason quits out of fear of being photographed. Dick alters a T-shirt cannon to fire a beer at Cody and Brah, hospitalizing them. After Dick reveals to Jason that he was a Green Beret, they go to a nightclub with the girls. Dick gets into a fight with some men after they bully Bradley for his homosexuality. The next day, Jason bonds with Shadia and she tells him that she is going to live on a ship for a year. 

That night, the group does karaoke with the men from the night before. After singing a duet, Jason realizes he has feelings for Shadia and plans on telling her the truth, but before he can, Cody does an online search using information he saw on Dick's (still valid) driver's license, and tells Shadia that Jason is already engaged. 

Jason then gets caught with drugs which were planted by Cody and Brah, and is thrown into jail again. The next day, Dick bails him out and tells Jason that his real reason for the trip was to convince Jason not to go through with the wedding. A disgusted and furious Jason leaves Dick and drives back home.

During his wedding rehearsal, Dick hacks into the computer system, revealing embarrassing photos of Jason. Jason says that he cannot marry Meredith, who reveals that she had an affair with his cousin, though Jason does not hear this information due to poor acoustics; his cousin instead quickly telling him that Meredith has told him to do what he wants to do. 

Jason, Dick, and Pam, with David (Dick's son and Jason's father), use Pam's ice cream truck to catch up with the bus that Shadia is on as she is leaving. Jason and Shadia kiss, and he gets on the bus with her, while David and Dick, previously estranged, reconnect. Dick goes to his house in Boca Raton and finds Lenore there waiting for him, and they have sex. Dick and Lenore get married and have a baby boy named Richard Jr., and Jason and Shadia are named the godparents.

