Checco was born into a life of relative comfort and privilege among his peers in his small town in southern Italy. He is one of the lucky few to have a ''posto fisso,'' or guaranteed job as a public servant. When a new reformist government vows to cut down on bureaucracy, Checco is forced to accept ever-worsening public-sector postings in order to maintain his guaranteed pay, benefits, and lifetime employment and continue to put in little effort and accept bribes. Dr. Sironi, a representative of the new government, is tasked with downsizing the public sector by offering buyouts to targeted government employees in exchange for their resignation (''see'' constructive dismissal). She takes a special interest in Checco who eventually becomes the last resilient holdout; no matter what hellish place he is appointed to, he finds rays of hope and won't surrender his public employee status.

Sironi sends Checco to various seemingly unpleasant locations only for Checco to find a way to continue his antics and make the best of each situation. In a final attempt to erode his willpower, Sironi appoints him to the Italian arctic research station as a hunter to protect the team. Checco initially wants to resign, but changes his decision when he falls in love with Valeria, a coworker. During vacation, Checco, visits Valeria where she lives in Norway and finds out that she has three children. He is also introduced to a whole new way of life. He becomes enchanted with the politeness and the aspects of a progressive, eco-centric society. However, he finds Norway's winter season depressing; he becomes homesick and misses Italian cuisine and culture. Checco and Valeria manage to move to Italy. Checco seems happy with his new job, but Valeria fails to adjust to the demanding living situation which requires compromises and bribery. Fed up, Valeria leaves Italy and Checco gets his permanent position back in his hometown. Later he receives news that Valeria is pregnant with his child in South Africa. Checco goes to South Africa, but Valeria is displeased with Checco's decision to juggle both the responsibilities of fatherhood and the ''posto fisso'' Checco chooses to let go of his secure job, uses the money from Sironi to buy vaccines for an African medical camp and restarts his life as Valeria's helper.

