A supermarket called Shopwell's is filled with anthropomorphic grocery items that believe that the human shoppers are gods, who take groceries they have purchased to a utopia known as the "Great Beyond". Among the groceries in the store is a sausage named Frank, who dreams of living in the Great Beyond with his hot dog bun girlfriend, Brenda, and of finally consummating their relationship.  

After Frank and Brenda's packages are chosen by a woman named Camille Toh to leave Shopwell's, a returned jar of Bickle's Honey Mustard tries to warn the groceries that the Great Beyond is a lie; nobody listens except for Frank. Honey Mustard calls on Frank to seek out a bottle of liquor named Firewater, before committing  suicide. This creates an accidental cart collision that causes Frank, Brenda, and several groceries to fall out, including an aggressive douche who gets his nozzle bent, and plots revenge against Frank and Brenda.

Seeking to verify Honey Mustard's warning, Frank leads Brenda, a lavash named Kareem Abdul Lavash, and a bagel named Sammy Bagel Jr. to the store's liquor aisle under the guise of taking a shortcut to their proper aisles. There, he smokes cannabis out of a kazoo and learns from Firewater that he and other non-perishable foods invented the story of the Great Beyond as a noble lie to assuage past foods' fears of being eaten by shoppers. Frank, vowing to reveal the truth to the groceries, is encouraged to travel beyond the store's freezer section to find proof. While waiting for Frank, Brenda and the others are led into the Mexican aisle by a bottle of Sigueme Tequila, where they meet Teresa del Taco, a taco who falls in love with Brenda on sight.

Meanwhile, Frank's two best friends Carl and deformed sausage Barry are horrified as they witness the other purchased foods being cooked and eaten by Camille, shown from the foods' perspective as a brutal murder. They try to escape out a window, but Carl is sliced in half and killed by Camille and only Barry succeeds. He then stumbles across a human druggie, who becomes able to communicate with his groceries after he injects himself with bath salts. After unsuccessfully attempting to cook Barry, the druggie is decapitated in a domestic accident.

After Frank separates from his friends, who disapprove of his skepticism of the Great Beyond, he discovers a cookbook behind the freezer section and reveals its contents to the rest of Shopwell's groceries. Initially panicking, the groceries choose not to believe Frank out of fear of losing their sense of purpose, prompting Frank to lash out at them for their blind belief. Barry and other groceries from the druggie's home return to the store with the druggie's severed head, revealing that the humans can be killed. The groceries are able to drug the human shoppers and employees using toothpicks laced with bath salts. When the drugged humans begin attacking the groceries, Frank convinces everyone to listen to him and join the fight against the humans.

A store-wide battle ensues with several humans getting gruesomely killed. Douche, who has absorbed the contents of liquor bottles, becomes a wild monster and takes control of Darren, the store manager, by inserting himself into his anus and yanking on his scrotum to puppeteer his actions. Once they catch Frank, Douche strangles him and bites on his torso. Barry and the other foods launch a rocket at Douche and Darren made from propane tanks and a garbage bin used to dispose of expired foods, killing them both right after Brenda rescues Frank. With the battle over, Frank, Brenda, Barry, Kareem, Sammy, Teresa and the other foods celebrate their victory with an orgy.

Afterwards, the gang meets Firewater and Gum, a Stephen Hawking-esque wad of chewing gum, who have had a psychedelic experience and discovered that their world is not real, and that they are merely cartoons voiced by famous actors in another dimension. Gum has constructed a portal to this dimension, and the groceries decide to travel there to meet their creators.


