Brothers Terry and Ian, who live in South London, were raised by their father, Brian, who runs a restaurant, and their mother, Dorothy, who taught her sons to look up to their uncle Howard, a successful plastic surgeon and businessman. He has opened clinics in Switzerland, the United States and, more recently, in China.

The brothers buy a sailboat at a low price, despite its near pristine condition. They name it ''Cassandra's Dream'', after a greyhound that won Terry the money to buy the boat.

While driving home from a day's sailing in a borrowed car, Ian crosses paths with actress Angela Stark, with whom he becomes infatuated. After noticing her car has broken down, he stops to help her fix it. As a way to thank him, she gifts Ian with tickets to the play she is performing at. After he attends the play, and despite Angela already having a lover, she and Terry start dating.

Terry has a gambling addiction that sinks him deeper in debt. Ian wishes to invest in hotels in California to finance a new life with Angela.  To overcome their financial problems, they decide to ask Howard for help. When Howard returns from a business trip in China, he agrees to help them, but asks for a favor in return: they must murder a man named Martin Burns. Howard faces imprisonment for unspecified crimes and his future is threatened by Burns, a former business partner who plans to testify against him. Howard asks his nephews to get rid of Burns, and in return he will reward them financially. After initial reluctance, the brothers agree.

In the ensuing days before the murder, while trying to come up with a plan, Ian fears Angela is sleeping with other people. He promises to give her a life in Hollywood if they treat the relationship as a serious, exclusive thing. To kill Martin, Ian and Terry eventually decide to make zip guns, untraceable and easily destroyed. Lying in wait in Burns' home, their plan is foiled when he arrives with a woman. Their resolve shaken, they leave and agree to commit the murder the next day.

The next day, after Martin visits her mother, Terry and Ian follow him and succeed in carrying out the murder. They later destroy the guns. Ian is content to move on as if nothing happened, but Terry is consumed by guilt and begins abusing alcohol and other drugs. His behavior frightens his fiancée, who tells Ian about the situation, saying that Terry believes he has killed someone. After Terry confides that he wants to turn himself in to the police, Ian goes to Howard for advice. They agree there is no alternative but to get rid of Terry. Ian plans to poison Terry during an outing on the boat. Unable to bring himself to kill his own brother, Ian attacks him in a fit of rage. In the chaos, Terry knocks Ian down the steps into the cabin, killing him.

The boat is later discovered adrift by the police, who deduce that Terry killed Ian and then drowned himself. ''Cassandra's Dream'' remains in beautiful condition despite everything that happened.

