Police psychologists review video recordings of a man who goes by the nickname Turk, who states his full name is Detective David Fisk, the Poetry Boy killer. The Poetry Boy earned the moniker for his modus operandi of murdering criminals and leaving short poems with their bodies. Fisk reveals that he looks up to his partner of almost 30 years, Detective Tom Cowan, and considers him to be his role model of how a cop should be. Turk's partner is known by the nickname Rooster, and they are consistently referred to as such outside of the recordings.

The story moves back to Poetry Boy's tenth victim, a pimp named Robert "Rambo" Brady. Turk and Rooster investigate the murder with the less-experienced detectives Karen Corelli, Simon Perez and Ted Riley. When they find a poem on the body, the cops link it to Poetry Boy. Turk is living with Corelli, who happens to be Perez's ex-girlfriend, causing tension across the three detectives.

Poetry Boy next murders acquitted rapist Jonathan Van Luytens and Father Connell, a Catholic priest and child molester (whose victims included Poetry Boy himself). Poetry Boy assaults an intended fourteenth victim, Russian mobster Yevgeny Magulat (who survives), and goes on to shoot at Perez's house and rape Corelli.

Perez and Riley suspect Turk of being Poetry Boy due to his marksmanship skills and psych evaluations, so they arrange a secretly supervised meeting between Turk and suspected drug dealer Marcus "Spider" Smith, during which Turk supposedly will feel the urge to kill Spider. Turk, unaware of the setup, effectively proves his innocence during an encounter with Spider as he has the "wrong" gun and recites a humiliating but obviously inappropriate poem. After Perez and Riley leave the scene unsatisfied, Rooster kills Spider. During this scrape, Rooster inadvertently drops his journal.

Turk stumbles upon and reads Rooster's journal, in which Rooster deems Spider will be Poetry Boy's fourteenth victim. Rooster puts Turk in front of a video camera and forces him to read the journal{{snd}}revealing how the audience has been misled into thinking Turk is Poetry Boy. Rooster is the actual David Fisk / Poetry Boy, while Turk is actually Tom Cowan. Rooster lost his faith in the justice system when Turk, who he looked up to, planted a gun at the house of an acquitted child molester and murderer named Charles Randall, convicting him. This had led Rooster to take the law into his own hands as the vigilante serial killer Poetry Boy.

When Turk finishes, he chases Rooster to a construction site. Rooster fires aimlessly to force Turk to report that the Poetry Boy is assaulting a police officer, resisting arrest, and fleeing, but Turk resists. When Rooster takes aim at Turk, Turk fires, striking Rooster in the chest. Turk calls for an ambulance, but Rooster begs Turk to let him die. After some hesitation, Turk calls off the paramedics, allowing Rooster to succumb to his wounds.

Sometime later, Turk is shown coaching a Police Athletic League baseball team, with Corelli looking on from the bleachers.

