Imaginative, impetuous, and wild Diana McFee (Evan Rachel Wood) cannot wait for her adult life to begin. While awaiting the final days of high school in the lush springtime, Diana tests her limits with sex and drugs as her more conservative friend Maureen (Eva Amurri) watches with concern. Then the two teens are involved in a Columbine-like shooting incident at their school and are forced to make an impossible choice.

The film mostly focuses on Diana's adulthood (Uma Thurman). She leads an apparently normal life as an art history university professor. She has a daughter, Emma (Gabrielle Brennan), and she is married to the professor who once gave a speech in her school about the power of visualization and how one can shape one's own future in this way.  However, Diana continues to feel guilty about something that does not let her sleep.

One day she gets a call from Emma's school; the nuns running it complain about Emma's behavior. At an ice-cream parlor, Diana asks Emma not to hide any more as she is always doing; Emma responds to her mother's reproach by claiming that Diana hates her. They leave the parlor abruptly, and as they are getting into the car, Diana sees her husband with another woman. She hesitates about confronting him and remains in the middle of the street, where she is hit by a pickup truck. On her way to the hospital she imagines that blood is escaping from her body.  In reality, she has not been hurt by the accident; instead she's remembering the complications she had following an abortion in her high-school days.

On the day of the 15th anniversary of the shooting, a memorial is held at the school. Diana drives in front of the school several times until she finally decides to stop and bring in some flowers. As she enters the school she is asked whether she is one of the survivors. She smiles and walks inside, first leaving flowers on some desks and then moving on to the rest rooms where one of the shootings took place. At that moment she gets a call from Emma's school informing her that her daughter is missing and that a pink piece of clothing has been found in the woods. She drives there and walks through the woods, shouting out her daughter's name. Emma appears before Diana's eyes for a moment, then vanishes almost as soon as she appeared.

What occurred 15 years earlier in the washroom where Diana left the flowers is revealed: She and Maureen had been forced to decide who would survive when confronted by the shooter, Michael Patrick (John Magaro).  Though Maureen had offered herself first, the shooter questioned why Diana should not die.  In response, Diana agreed to be killed and was shot by Michael, who then killed himself.  At that moment, Diana dreamed the adult life she thought she would have if she let Maureen die and Emma was the child she would have had if she had not gone through with the abortion.

At the anniversary, Diana is asked once again if she is a survivor.  She replies "No" with a smile, with a sense of relief that she did the right thing by dying and having her friend live her life.

