During World War II, Wehrmacht Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg is stationed in Tunisia, where he becomes increasingly disillusioned with the future of Nazi Germany under Hitler. His battalion comes under attack by P-40 fighter-bombers.<ref>3 Sqn veteran Tom Russell states that: "operational records and pilot diaries" for the other Desert Air Force Kittyhawk squadrons "shows them operating away from Mezzouna..." at the time. [http://www.3squadron.org.au/subpages/Stauffenberg.htm Tom Russell, 2011, "3 Squadron and the 'Plot to Kill Hitler'"] {{Webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20120324221401/http://3squadron.org.au/subpages/Stauffenberg.htm |date=March 24, 2012 }} (Access: 23 April 2012.) Russell</ref> Stauffenberg is severely injured and evacuated home to Germany, where he loses his left eye, his right hand, and two fingers on his left hand.

Meanwhile, Hitler visits his military headquarters on the Eastern Front. General Henning von Tresckow attempts to assassinate Hitler by smuggling a timebomb disguised as a box containing a bottle of Cointreau onto his plane. The bomb fails to detonate, and Hitler's plane lands safely in Berlin. Shortly afterwards, resistance member General Hans Oster is arrested by the Gestapo. Stauffenberg is recruited by General Friedrich Olbricht to take Oster's place in the German Resistance, which includes Tresckow, General Ludwig Beck, Dr. Carl Goerdeler, and Field Marshal Erwin von Witzleben.

Stauffenberg proposes using Operation Valkyrie, which involves the deployment of the Reserve Army in a national emergency, as a means to take control of the country. The plotters redraft the plan's orders to enable the dismantling of the Nazi regime after assassinating Hitler. Stauffenberg's promotion within the Reserve Army grants him direct access to Hitler, who approves the redrafted plan without fully examining the alterations. Realizing that only General Friedrich Fromm, the head of the Reserve Army, can initiate Valkyrie, they offer him a position as head of the Wehrmacht after the coup; but Fromm, although agreeing to remain silent on the matter, declines to be directly involved.

Stauffenberg is ordered to assassinate both Hitler and Himmler at the Wolf's Lair. He persuades General Fellgiebel to cut off communications after the attempt. On July&nbsp;15, 1944, Stauffenberg attends a strategy meeting at the Wolf's Lair with a bomb, but does not receive permission to proceed as Himmler is absent. Meanwhile, the Reserve Army is mobilized by Olbricht. Stauffenberg leaves with the bomb and the Reserve Army is ordered to stand down. Fromm threatens Olbricht and Stauffenberg that he will arrest them if they try to control the Reserve Army again; Stauffenberg berates the plotters for their indecisiveness and condemns Goerdeler. When Goerdeler demands that Stauffenberg be relieved, Beck informs him that the SS has issued a warrant for his arrest, and that he must leave the country immediately.

On July 20 Stauffenberg returns to the Wolf's Lair. Due to the warm weather, the conference is being held in an open-window summer barrack, minimizing their bomb's potential effectiveness. Stauffenberg places the briefcase containing the bomb close to Hitler before leaving. Officer Heinz Brandt moves the case behind a table leg, inadvertently shielding Hitler. When the bomb explodes, Stauffenberg is certain that Hitler is dead and flees, bluffing his way past checkpoints and returning to Berlin.

Olbricht refuses to mobilize the Reserve Army without confirmation that Hitler is dead; but Colonel von Quirnheim, one of the plotters, forges his signature and issues the orders. With Valkyrie underway, the plotters order the arrest of Nazi party leaders and SS officers, convincing lower officers that the Party and the SS are staging a coup, and soldiers begin to take control of the ministries. Rumors surface that Hitler survived the blast, but Stauffenberg dismisses them as SS propaganda. Having learned from Field Marshal Keitel that Hitler is still alive, Fromm refuses to join the plotters, resulting in them detaining him. They also detain General Joachim von Kortzfleisch after he refuses to take part in the operation and tries to disrupt the plot by reminding the conspirators and workers of their oath of loyalty to Hitler.

Major Otto Ernst Remer of the Reserve Army prepares to arrest Goebbels, but he stops when Goebbels connects him by phone to Hitler. Recognizing the voice on the other end, Remer realizes that the Reserve Army has been duped. Soon, SS officers are released, and the plotters are besieged inside the Bendlerblock. The headquarters staff flee, but the resistance leaders are arrested. Attempting to save himself, Fromm convenes an impromptu court martial, during which he places Beck under arrest, and sentences von Quirnheim, Olbricht, von Haeften, and Stauffenberg to death. The ringleaders are executed by firing squad; Beck is given a pistol and commits suicide; Tresckow kills himself in a forest by holding a grenade to his throat; Witzleben and Goerdeler are sentenced in show trials and hanged.

