In Prague, Blade searches for his mentor Abraham Whistler, who was thought dead after being attacked by Deacon Frost{{Efn|name=Timeline|depicted in ''Blade (1998 film)''}}, but was instead turned into a vampire by one of his captors, Rush, and held prisoner for two years. Blade rescues Whistler and cures him. Whistler meets Scud, Blade's young, gifted new technician.

A pandemic is turning vampires into "Reapers", primal, mutant creatures with a ravenous thirst for blood and a highly infectious bite that transforms both humans and vampires alike. In order to combat the Reapers, vampire overlord Eli Damaskinos sends his trusted servant Asad, and his daughter, Nyssa, to strike a truce with Blade, who reluctantly allies with the vampires. 

He teams up with the Bloodpack, an elite group of vampires originally assembled to kill him. The pack consists of Asad, Nyssa, Reinhardt, Chupa, Snowman, Priest, Verlaine, and her lover Lighthammer. Reinhardt hates Blade and challenges him to fight, but in response, Blade attaches an explosive to the back of his head to keep him in line. They investigate a vampire nightclub where they encounter the Reapers and discover they are immune to most vampire weaknesses. The Reaper leader, Jared Nomak, arrives and holds Nyssa hostage. He tries to recruit Blade to his cause, citing their mutual hatred of vampires. Priest is bitten and mercy-killed, and Lighthammer is bitten but conceals the bite. Whistler disappears and Scud is attacked by several Reapers, which he drives off with UV lights. Blade fights Nomak, who is immune to Blade's weapons. 

As the sun rises, Nomak retreats, and Whistler returns after locating a large Reaper nest in the sewers beneath the club. Nyssa dissects a dead Reaper and learns their hearts are encased in durable bone. Realizing UV light is their only weakness, Scud and Whistler fashion new UV weapons for the team, as well as a UV-emitting bomb strong enough to take out the entire nest.

Entering the Reaper nest, Lighthammer transforms into a Reaper and kills Snowman. Verlaine sacrifices herself to kill Lighthammer by exposing them both to sunlight. Chupa turns on Whistler, but Whistler covertly releases a cartridge of Reaper pheromones into the air and lures Chupa to his death. Asad and Nyssa are ambushed and Asad is killed. Blade saves Nyssa and detonates the UV-bomb, which kills all of the Reapers except for Nomak. Nyssa and Reinhardt manage to evade the blast, but Nyssa is seriously injured until Blade allows her to drink his blood to survive.

Damaskinos' forces betray and capture Blade, Whistler, and Scud. It is revealed that the Reapers exist as a result of Damaskinos' efforts to engineer a stronger breed of vampires. Nomak, the first Reaper, is his own son, whom Damaskinos considers a failure due to his weakness to sunlight. Scud reveals himself to be one of Damaskinos' familiars, but Blade, who already suspected this, kills him with the explosive he planted on Reinhardt earlier, which Scud thought was a dud but Blade secretly swapped with a real explosive. 

Damaskinos plans to harvest Blade’s blood in order to develop an immunity to sunlight and create a new and entirely invincible breed of vampires. Whistler frees himself, escaping Reinhardt, and frees a nearly-drained Blade. Reinhardt shoots Blade, but Blade falls into Damaskinos' blood pool, restoring his strength. He fights his way through Damaskinos' henchmen and kills Reinhardt.

Nomak enters Damaskinos' stronghold seeking revenge on his father. Nyssa betrays Damaskinos by sealing off their escape route and Damaskinos is killed by Nomak after failing to negotiate with him. Nomak then bites Nyssa, drinking her blood and infecting her with the Reaper virus. Blade and Nomak engage in battle and Blade stabs Nomak in his only weak spot. With his revenge complete, and wanting to end his suffering, Nomak kills himself with Blade's sword. Fulfilling Nyssa's wish of dying as a vampire, Blade takes her outside and embraces her as her body disintegrates due to the sunrise. Sometime later in London, in a strip club booth where Rush, the vampire that escaped in Prague, expects a woman, Blade appears and kills him with his blade.

