NATO operative Jacques Kristoff is summoned into action by his superior, General Zakev. His objective is to track down Galina Konstantin, who has stolen an extremely valuable and dangerous container from the Slovak Government, and extract her to Munich by train. Kristoff is given assistance by Lars, who is working with NATO. Jacques is able to locate Galina, reaching her at the same time as a Slovak military unit. After an extended chase, they are able to reach the train and it departs.

Jacques is surprised to discover that his wife, Madeline, and two children, Bailey and Ethan, have boarded the train planning to surprise him for his birthday. However, Madeleine sees Galina and thinks Jacques and her are having an affair. Before storming out of Jacques' cabin, she tells him that she and the kids will get off the train at the next stop.

Meanwhile, the engine compartment is hijacked by two men who take control of the convoy. They install a cellphone jammer to prevent people from calling authorities. They are working with international criminal Mason Cole, who has also boarded the train. After the train has departed, Cole and his men take control of the train, killing most of the staff, with the exception of the conductor, who hides inside a cabinet after being shot in the leg. Cole orders his henchmen to corral the passengers to the bar room, and demands passenger Galina Konstantin be handed over to him.

Jacques takes out one of his henchmen and runs to the back of the train, where Galina is hiding. Galina reveals the top secret cargo she is carrying is a set of three vials containing a dangerous smallpox strain. Jacques takes the vials, and the two climb on the outside of the train to spy on Cole. However, they are detected and captured by Cole, who takes the vials. A fight ensues. Jacques is presumed to have fallen off the train, but has in fact managed to grab onto an exterior handle. Galina attempts to take the vials back, but one of them breaks, exposing everyone on the train to the virus.

Jacques neutralizes Cole's henchmen in charge of the train's controls. He disables the cell jammer, and puts the real conductor back at the commands. However the brake lines have broken, preventing the train from stopping. Meanwhile Madeline, a doctor by trade, helps comforting the infected passengers, including her own children. Now in possession of the virus, Cole plans to extract from the train via helicopter. But Jacques ambushes him and ties the helicopter's ladder to the train, causing it to crash as the train goes through the tunnel. He also steals the remaining vials back. Now able to place phone calls, Jacques alerts General Zakev of the ongoing crisis. However, he is discovered and escapes by getting off the train with a motorcycle. After consulting with the German railway authority and quarantine specialists, Zakev announces that, should the train come close enough to Germany, they will have to destroy a bridge along its path using thermonuclear missiles.

Jacques climbs back onto the train, and Cole threatens to kill his family if he does not return the vials. He does, but Ethan steals them and flees. Soon after, the convoy gets t-boned by another crazy train, taking the back section clean off and leaving Ethan's fate uncertain. Jacques and the conductor initiate the process of separating the car they are in from the front cars and locomotive. They are ambushed by Cole, who kills the conductor before Jacques kills him.

Jacques and other passengers activate their car's manual brake. As the train gets near the bridge where the troops are massed, Zakev orders the bridge destroyed and the first few cars plunge into the crevice. However, the rest of the train slows down enough that the passengers—including Ethan who is revealed to be alive—can evacuate before their car falls off. The passengers are put in quarantine under a medical tent, and receive treatment. Jacques accuses Lars to have been an accomplice in the hijacking, and Zakev has the latter arrested. Madeline and Jacques reconcile, while Galina disappears. In the final scene, Galina is shown to have returned to her life of high-stakes burglaries.

