A pair of teenage half-brothers, Karl and David Scott, are on a flight with their father Frank on his private plane when Karl takes over the controls, so his father can fall asleep. After flying into a storm, Karl struggles, causing Frank to retake control before it crashes into the ocean. Frank saves his sons, but has trouble escaping the crashed plane as his seatbelt fails to release. Karl and David wash up on the shore of a large uncharted island. Looking for help, Karl and David meet a man named Cyrus Crabb who informs them that they are in Dinotopia, a hidden civilization where human beings and dinosaurs co-exist peacefully. Crabb leads the boys to a village, where the boys are surprised to see that they are wearing clothes from different cultures in different time periods. There, they witness a young Dinotopian woman, Marion Waldo, pacify a ''Ankylosaurus'' with a toothache. The two boys befriend her and hitch a ''Brachiosaur'' "bus" ride to Waterfall City. During the journey, the "Brachs" become distressed by an unseen presence. Marion, David, Karl and the Brach bus conductor investigate the forest nearby and find ''Tyrannosaurus'' footprints. Marion is unsettled by this, as ''Tyrannosaurus'' do not usually hunt in packs. She begins to sense a strange unbalance, after discovering the destroyed remains of a Dinotopian village. For the Brachs's safety, the group spends the night in the village. Later in the night, the group is attacked by the raiding ''Tyrannosaurus'' pack. Karl, David and Marion run for their lives, as the ''Tyrannosaurus'' hunt them down. Marion trips and falls, and is nearly killed by a ''Tyrannosaurus'' when a group of Skybax riders, humans riding on ''Quetzalcoatlus'', distract and scare away the ''Tyrannosaurus''. The Skybax squadron leader, Oonu, offers to escort the Brachs to Waterfall.

In fact, some of the dinosaurs, notably a neurotic but friendly ''Stenonychosaurus'' named Zipeau, possess human intelligence and speak perfect English. Among the many rules in Dinotopia is the edict that outsiders are never allowed to leave. Only David whole-heartedly wants to stay. Karl, however, traumatized and embittered by his father's apparent drowning and the Dinotopian’s lack of sympathy, refuses to acclimate.

As Karl and David prepare to take their places in their new surroundings, both boys develop a strong bond with young Marion, who is on the verge of becoming a "matriarch" of the Dinotopian society. Legend has it that their ancestors lived in an underworld that was lit by sunstones. Cyrus has been stealing artifacts and books to try and find a way off the island. Zipeau discovers all the stolen items, but Cyrus knocks him out and throws him in a water canal. Meanwhile, Karl finds a Dino egg and gets sent on a mission by himself. The sun-stones keep mysteriously breaking which causes the dinos to attack. David needs to learn to conquer his fears. Unfortunately, the incursion of vicious carnivores, not to mention an unanticipated human villain, threaten to destroy Dinotopia and everyone living there.

