When Zoe (Amanda Adrienne) tells her mother that she wants to move in with her long-distance boyfriend, her mother is reluctant to let her drive by herself since she is deaf and would be unable to call for assistance if she needed it. Despite her reservations, Zoe's mother allows her to go alone which proves to have disastrous consequences when, in the course of bravely helping an injured reservation Indian, Zoe is abducted and brutally gang raped by several members of a degenerate local gang, descendants of the people who wiped out the Apache tribe inhabiting the lands over two hundred years ago. The preserved skull of the Apache chief (Rick Mora) is kept by them as a spoil of war.

Once they have finished abusing her, the gang kill and bury Zoe, only for an elderly Native American man, graveyard keeper Grey Wolf (Joseph Runningfox), to attempt to bring her back through a ritual. However, the resurrection ceremony also brings back the spirit of the Apache Warchief Mangas Coloradas, who was killed by an ancestor of one of the gang that raped Zoe. The chief, possessing Zoe's body, starts to hunt down her murderers. Grey Wolf finds Zoe and explains what has happened to her, warning the possessed woman that her flesh will continue to rapidly decay, and for both Zoe and the chief to know peace, they must be avenged quickly.

After a number of the gang are killed (disemboweled, shot with arrows and scalped), the remaining ones decide to abduct Zoe's boyfriend, Dane, who has followed Zoe's trail in search of her. They succeed, loading-up on weaponry and barricading themselves in an improvised fortress which they surround with myriad traps. Zoe, in return, is gifted with a long-buried tomahawk and a knife, which once belonged to the murdered Warchief. She eventually hunts down all of the gang except for Trey (Rodney Rowland), who is the direct descendant of the chief's own murderer. When she tells him to "walk in hell" (the last words spoken to the chief before he was decapitated), Trey realizes what has been happening, and flees to the graveyard, torturing Grey Wolf for information on how to put Apache ghosts to rest. Zoe, meanwhile, murders the rest of Trey's family, while Dane, learning that she is alive, heads to the sacred Apache grounds as well.

Trey desperately tries to bury the skull in order to pacify the spirit, but fails to finish before Zoe appears. After fighting her off with a chainsaw, he is defeated and beheaded, completing the Warchief's revenge, but leaving Zoe's body broken and ruined. Dane finds her upper half trying to bury itself. After the tragic pair express their love one final time, Dane, in an act of mercy, cremates Zoe's remains, liberating both souls into the Afterlife.

