{{long plot|date=May 2020}}  
Chief Inspector Lui Ming-chit and ex-con To Shing-bong are secondary school classmates who competitively practiced judo together. Right after To was released from prison for robbery, he immediately re-joins Cao Nam and his gang to highjack an armoured car transporting cash. Lui leads his squad to arrest Cao's gang and engages in a gunfight where Cao kills a female hostage. Cao and his gang escape the scene after To suddenly rams Lui's car. To is arrested and he claims the crash was an accident and denies being Cao's accomplice. To is released after his girlfriend, Yin-bing arrives with a lawyer to bail him, but Lui orders his subordinates to tail him. To promises Yin-bing to give up his criminal life and she finds him a job in a restaurant.

The Regional Crime Unit later discovers the corpse of one of Cao's underlings and the burnt remains of the getaway vehicle. Lui leads his squad to raid Cao’s hideout after they discover their whereabouts by recognising one of Cao’s underlings Chow in surveillance camera footage. A firefight breaks out and Lui manages to arrest Chow while To and Cao manage their escape. At Cao’s residence, the police tries to arrest him on account that Chow could be made a witness implicating Cao. This fails after Chow destroys evidence and throws himself off a building.

Lui enlists the help of his long-time informant Tong Keung who goes undercover at Cao’s gang. Tong joins in the next heist but the gang upon discovering the police tailing them become suspicious and attacked Tong. Upon finding a phone provided by Liu, the gang chases Tong to his house. Lui arrives to save Tong but was too late. Cao’s gang had shot Tong and threw his 10-year old autistic daughter off the building who eventually succumbs to her injuries. Enraged, Lui confronts Cao, who was driving to the airport, and after a struggle arrests Cao who is officially charged with the murder of Tong and Yuen-yiu after blood and fabric particles of the latter were found on Cao's hand.

Lui later receives a clip from Yin-bing's drug-addicted younger brother, Kit. The clip which was taken from the camera from Cao’s car reveals that Liu had framed Cao by wiping the blood of Tong’s daughter on him. Liu meets Kit who tries to blackmail Liu for HK$500,000 every month. However, Kit suddenly suffers from an asthma attack and dies after Lui refuses him his inhaler. Liu then removes all evidence from Kit’s apartment.

Meanwhile, Yin-bing tearfully breaks up with To after encountering him in the previous armoured car heist. She lies that she is two months pregnant with another man's child. To tries to salvage their relationship by claiming to be an undercover cop. To then meets with Lui and informs him the mastermind behind the previous armoured car heist and the murderer of Tong and Yuen-yiu is actually Cao's sworn brother, Paco, who was recently released from prison.

To offers to be Lui's informant in arresting Paco under the condition that Lui tell Yin-bing about To's identity as undercover cop. Lui agrees but Lui does not plan to leave Paco and the gang (including To) alive. Paco leads the gang in another armoured car heist armed with heavy weaponry, which turns out to be a trap set by the police to arrest them when several Special Duties Unit officers turn up inside the armoured car. A firefight breaks out which spread towards the Central District.

To, having seen the video of Lui framing Cao, takes a mobile phone from a hostage and calls Lui to allow him to flee in a car, which Lui agrees and tells him not to surrender so that the criminals can be killed by the police. After an intense shootout, the gang is killed and To flees the scene. Lui initially considers shooting him but ultimately decides not to, but To was unexpectedly run over by an oncoming truck and dies. Yin-bing, who was watching the live broadcast, sees this and cries.

Afterwards, Lui writes a letter Yin-bing, stating that To was an undercover officer and turns himself in for his illegal actions. After giving his testimony, Lui asks the officer whether the storm is over and shows a sign of gratefulness after given yes as an answer.

