In 1949 Los Angeles, crime boss Mickey Cohen has become the most powerful figure in the California criminal underworld and intends to expand his criminal enterprise to encompass the entire West Coast. The LAPD has not been able to stop his ruthless rise, as he has eliminated witnesses, hired dirty cops to protect his activities, and avoided prosecution through corruption in the justice system.

Determined to put a stop to Cohen, LAPD Chief Bill Parker creates a secret police unit tasked with dismantling Cohen's enterprise. The unit, composed of officers who do not carry badges and are authorized to act outside of the law, are led by the skilled World War II OSS veteran Sergeant John O'Mara. With the help of his wife, Connie, he recruits Detective Jerry Wooters and four incorruptible misfit officers: knife-wielding Lieutenant Coleman Harris, wire tapping expert and family man Conwell Keeler, outlaw sharpshooter Max Kennard, and Kennard's rookie protégé Navidad Ramirez.

Despite initial setbacks, such as a casino raid thwarted by corrupt Burbank police officers, the Squad strikes several successful blows at the heart of Cohen's operations, including shutting down his lucrative wire gambling business. They break into Cohen's mansion and Keeler plants a bug in the back of a television. As a result, Cohen believes someone has betrayed him and lashes out at those around him, including his etiquette tutor Grace Faraday. Wooters and Faraday have entered into a secret romantic relationship, and he tries to help her escape from Cohen, enlisting the help of mutual friend and gangster Jack Whalen.

Realizing the attackers have never stolen his money, Cohen deduces they are cops and realizes that they have bugged his house. He uses it to lure the Squad into an unsuccessful ambush in Chinatown while Keeler is executed by a hitman. When Faraday witnesses Cohen murder Whalen, she agrees to testify against her former employer. O'Mara forces the crooked Judge Carter to sign an arrest warrant before leading the Squad to the Park Plaza Hotel to arrest Cohen.

Cohen and his men engage in a lengthy shootout with the Squad, during which Wooters and Kennard are wounded. Cohen and his bodyguard Karl Lennox escape, but O'Mara rams their vehicle into a fountain. Navidad helps a dying Kennard shoot Lennox, saving O'Mara. Cohen and O'Mara fight each other in a brutal bareknuckle brawl while onlookers and journalists gather. O'Mara finally beats Cohen and has him arrested, ending his reign over Los Angeles.

The film explains that the Gangster Squad has never been mentioned for its role in keeping the Mafia from gaining a foothold in L.A., and that its surviving members remain secret. Cohen is sentenced to life imprisonment at Alcatraz, and is greeted with a lead-pipe beating by inmates who were friends of Whalen. Harris and Ramirez partner together to walk the beat, Wooters and Faraday continue their relationship, and O'Mara quits his job with the LAPD to live a quiet life with his wife and newborn son.

