In the Philippines, Mario and Daniel are prisoners who are frequently released and paid to commit contract killings. Mario spends his earnings on Tina, his daughter, and Lulette, his estranged wife, while Daniel sends remittances to his family and spends the rest on goods and privileges in prison; he has come to see Mario as a mentor and father figure. After they murder drug lord Tiu and return to prison, Tiu's murder case is assigned to NBI Agent Francis Coronel through Congressman Manrique. When Coronel and his partner, Bernabe, arrive at the local precinct, they clash with PNP Sergeant Joaquin Acosta, who believes that the case was taken from him for political reasons.

Mario and Daniel carry out a hit on a woman named Linda, whose husband Pol seeks help from Acosta, his former colleague. Pol reveals that Tiu's murder is one of several assassinations ordered by Manrique's close friend Pacheco, a military officer campaigning for the Philippine Senate. Acosta agrees to protect Pol and heads to the station; along the way, he encounters Coronel and Bernabe. Meanwhile, Daniel shoots Pol, but his pistol jams before he can fire a fatal shot. The three officers converge on them, forcing Daniel and Mario to flee, although they manage to locate and kill Pol at a hospital. As they split up to escape, Bernabe is shot and Acosta catches a glimpse of Mario's face.

Coronel confronts Manrique and tells him that he intends to arrest Pacheco. Manrique warns Coronel that Pacheco's indictment will cause their downfall, as he considers Pacheco his last resort after having exhausted all his other options to remain affluent. Meanwhile, Acosta relays Mario's composite sketch to be broadcast on television before deciding to work with Coronel. When Coronel discovers Mario's identity, he visits Lulette and sees her flirting with Mario's friend, Boy. Coronel tells Acosta about his discovery, and Acosta uses it as leverage when he interrogates Mario. Although Acosta is unsuccessful, Mario later expresses to Daniel his feelings of betrayal. Mario then phones Tina, who tells her father that she saw his police sketch and that she intends to live independently.

Tiu's father tells Acosta and Coronel that he has evidence that they can use to arrest Pacheco. Coronel goes to visit Pacheco, who admits to killing Coronel's father to "save the country". Coronel then uses his cellphone to secretly record a conversation between Pacheco and his men about the murder of Tiu's father.

Soon after, Daniel kills Coronel in front of police headquarters, causing an enraged Acosta to attack Pacheco and Manrique's security detail. Meanwhile, a disheartened Mario realizes that he has no reason to leave prison since his family no longer wants anything to do with him, and stabs Daniel to death to remain incarcerated. Coronel's death prompts an investigation of Acosta, who is relieved of duty, and Pacheco, who tells journalists he is ready to be investigated. After attending Daniel's wake from afar, Mario goes home, kills Boy in front of his family, and returns to prison.

Sometime later, a recovered Bernabe looks through Coronel's possessions and requisitions the phone Coronel used against Pacheco as evidence.

