Otto Anderson is a 63-year-old widower, living in a rowhouse in suburban Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Six months after losing his wife Sonya, a schoolteacher, Otto has become a cynical, fastidious curmudgeon. Pushed into retirement from his job at a steel plant, he cancels his utilities and plans to kill himself, to join his late wife.

Preparing to hang himself, Otto is interrupted by the arrival of new neighbours: pregnant Marisol, her husband Tommy, and their daughters Abby and Luna, who try to befriend him. When he attempts suicide, the noose collapses from the ceiling, so he visits Sonya's grave, and has flashbacks to their past: As a young man, he was rejected from the army due to his hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, and met Sonya on a train, where she lent him a 1964 silver quarter he has kept ever since.

Otto helps his neighbour Anita with her radiators, despite holding a grudge against her husband Reuben, a non-responsive stroke survivor. Otto attempts suicide again via carbon monoxide poisoning in his garage, thinking back on his and Sonya's courtship, but he is interrupted by Marisol when Tommy breaks his leg after borrowing Otto's ladder. Otto reluctantly drives Marisol and the children to the hospital, where he assaults a clown for taking his quarter during a magic trick.

While waiting on a train platform for another suicide attempt, Otto remembers his graduation from engineering school, when he asked Sonya to marry him. He saves an older man who falls onto the tracks, and lets himself be pulled to safety at the last second. When his neighbour Jimmy rescues a stray cat but turns out to be allergic, Otto reluctantly adopts it. He confronts a teenager named Malcolm for delivering unwanted advertising circulars, and the boy recognises Otto as his former teacher's husband, recounting that Sonya supported him as a transgender student.

Annoyed by Marisol's inability to drive, Otto gives her lessons. They visit Sonya's favourite bakery, where Otto explains that Anita and Sonya were best friends, but he and Reuben grew apart over trivialities such as loyalties to different car manufacturers, culminating in Reuben's "coup" replacing Otto as chair of the neighbourhood association. Otto babysits Abby and Luna while Marisol and Tommy spend a night out together, and befriends Malcolm, helping fix his bicycle.

Otto dodges social media journalist Sharie Kenzie after video of the incident at the train station goes viral. Unwilling to come to terms with Sonya's death, Otto lashes out at Marisol and an agent for Dye & Merika, a real estate company trying to take over the neighbourhood. He prepares to commit suicide by shotgun, remembering the bus crash on a romantic trip to Niagara Falls that caused a pregnant Sonya to lose her baby and become a paraplegic. Interrupted again, by Malcolm this time, Otto lets him spend the night after being kicked out by his father.

Otto learns that Dye & Merika are conspiring with Reuben and Anita's estranged son, leveraging Anita's secret Parkinson's diagnosis to buy their house and put Reuben in their nursing home. He resolves to fight them and asks for Marisol's help, finally explaining Sonya's stillbirth and disability, his frustration at the inaccessibility of the Dye & Merika housing development, and how he was voted out as association chair after a heated confrontation with the company. When Dye & Merika staff arrive to take Reuben, the neighbors band together to stop them, with Kenzie exposing their illegal access of Anita and Otto's medical records.

Otto collapses and he is taken to the hospital, identifying Marisol as his next of kin. She is amused to learn "his heart is too big", then goes into labour and gives birth to a son, Marco. Otto gives Marisol and Tommy the crib he built when Sonya was pregnant, gifts his car to Malcolm, and grows closer with his neighbours. Three years later, Tommy notices Otto has not shovelled his walkway, and he and Marisol find that he has died of heart failure, and left a letter to Marisol bequeathing his home, savings, new truck, and cat. Following his wishes for a funeral, the neighbours gather to remember Otto Anderson.

