Two figures get into a fight at the Wonder Wharf, where a gunshot rings out and one of the figures falls.

Six years later, the Belcher family prepares for the day and discuss their plans for the summer; Bob and Linda plan to extend their loan from First Oceanside Savings Bank, Tina plans to confess to her crush Jimmy Jr., Gene constructs an instrument to perform at the half-renovated bandshell, and Louise wants to prove she's brave.

Bob and Linda are denied an extension on their loan, and unless they pay it all in a week, their restaurant equipment will get repossessed. They decide to ask their landlord, Mr. Calvin Fischoeder, if they can skip rent for the month until they pay the loan. However, after a sinkhole forms in front of the restaurant, a skeleton of a carnie (Cotton Candy Dan) is discovered in it by the kids, and Mr. Fischoeder is charged for the murder. If he's convicted, they won't be able to get the rent skipped.

The Belcher children skip school so they can find out who truly committed the murder, which would free their landlord. After some investigation, including investigating a group of carnies, questioning the police officer Sergeant Bosco, and searching the Fischoder's treehouse, they conclude that Mr. Fischoeder's brother Felix is the killer. They ultimately end up in a secret clubhouse underneath a ride called the Mole Hill at Wonder Wharf. Calvin, Felix, and their cousin and family lawyer Grover are all hiding out in the clubhouse until the two brothers can flee the country because of the murder charge. Louise sees a photo that shows Grover wearing a cufflink that was found on the skeleton, and sees a faded bite mark on Grover's wrist, revealing that he was in fact the murderer. Grover soon notices what Louise is doing, and holds her, the other kids, and the Fischoeders hostage.

Meanwhile, at the restaurant, Bob, Linda and their family-friend Teddy prepare to sell burgers at Wonder Wharf using a portable food stand that Teddy builds in an attempt to come up with the money for the loan and rent. They make a good amount of money, but after being chased by carnies, run into the Mole Hill and fall into the secret clubhouse.

Grover, now pointing a speargun at his seven hostages, reveals his plan: to frame Calvin, kill him and Felix, burn the Mole Hill using a fuse and get the family trust money. He decides that the plan can continue as normal, but the Belcher family must be killed as well. Calvin and Felix are first placed into the submarine designed to drown them, giving the Belchers time to escape. Grover chases the Belchers on go-karts, and in the end buries them in the sinkhole in front of their restaurant. The family is launched out by breaking a water main and they head back to the Mole Hill, where Louise stops the fuse from burning down the Mole Hill. The police send Grover to jail and save the Fischoeder brothers from drowning. Later, as the week ends, Bob and Linda finally pay the loan, Louise does the dead man's drop, Tina confesses to Jimmy Jr., and Gene's band performs at the bandshell.

