{{Long plot|date=November 2022}}
The Bakers are a blended family that began with Paul Baker and his wife Kate who together had daughters Ella and Harley. They had friends who died in a car accident causing them to take in their godson Haresh. Kate eventually divorced Paul, but they remained friends with Kate acting as an occasional, though slightly inattentive, babysitter.

Zoey married football player Dominic "Dom" Clayton and had daughter Deja and son DJ. Due to Dom's celebrity life, Zoey divorced him and took custody of the kids. Paul met Zoey after she visited his small restaurant and suggested that he make the entire menu breakfast themed all day. The two eventually got married, expanded the restaurant, renamed it Baker's Breakfast and had two sets of twins: Luca and Luna, and Bronx and Bailey.

Dom continues to be active in Deja and DJ's lives which slightly intimidates Paul as he was rarely there to begin with. While Deja prepares for her basketball scholarship to the University of Southern California, DJ feels that he connects with Paul more than Dom and would rather speak with him. Paul gets a meeting with a large company to expand his restaurant. He succeeds and has his famous sauce sold on shelves. He decides to use the money to move the family and their dogs Bark Obama and Joe Bitin' from Los Angeles to Calabasas, in a bigger house in a gated community.

Upon arrival, Zoey begins to feel the effects of racial profiling, especially after meeting her neighbor Anne. Paul suddenly gets a call informing him that his sister Rachel has checked into rehab, forcing him to take in his nephew Seth, who Ella and Harley claim is a criminal. Seth bonds with Haresh when he discovers that he is being picked on at the new school because of his ethnicity and teaches him to defend himself while making monster spray for his younger cousins. While not being used a lot on the Calabasa Hornets basketball team, Deja begins seeing a boy named Chris and sneaks out of the house to see him.

Paul finds himself having to travel to look for new places to expand his restaurant. The investors Melanie and Michele also insist on altering some of his business ideals to cut costs. He starts to miss out on being with his family which upsets Zoey as this was the reason she divorced Dom. Haresh and Seth are suspended from school for a week after starting a fight with the kids who bullied Haresh causing Zoey to ground them. On DJ's birthday, Paul rushes to get home. During the party, things start to get out of hand as DJ changes his look to impress a girl. Anne profiles Zoey's family for a series of recent break-ins. Upon Paul arriving, Deja reveals that she quit the basketball team and that the entire family has been unhappy since arriving in Calabasas. Feeling that Zoey can no longer handle their kids, Dom announces that he wants full custody of Deja and DJ.

Harley and Ella accuse Seth of the break-ins after Haresh pointed out that he saw him stealing from the restaurant cash register, though he returned it and he angrily leaves. After telling Paul and Zoey they explain the money is from DCFS and they have been giving it to Seth and that someone broke into Anne house during the party while Seth was grounded. Upon realizing their mistake, the Bakers, Kate, and Dom all go out and find Seth. They apologize and admit that he is part of the family and he rejoins them.

Back at home, Paul and Dom discuss their different upbringings. While Paul will never know what it is like to be at a disadvantage, Dom has to understand that being away from his kids has made him distant and that he needs to be more attentive. Realizing how much his family means to him, Paul breaks his deal with the company so that he can run the restaurant himself. The Bakers move back to Los Angeles and buy a new house while the children returned to their old schools as Deja returns to the Elysian Park Wildcats which beat the Calabasa Hornets. While having breakfast for dinner at the newly named Baker's Dozen Breakfast, Paul reveals the design of the sauce bottle has changed to reflect the entire family.

A postscript states that Dom, Paul, and Zoey were able to invest their sauce and went national. Kate invented bird yoga which only birds liked. Seth moved back in with his mom after she got out of rehab, but still spends lots of time with his cousins who haven't had any monster problems since. Deja and Chris soon started their freshman years at USC. Ella became the social manager for Harley's punk band and a video of her band playing at her school talent show broke the internet. Luna and Luca won the tennis national under 12 division becoming like Venus and Serena. DJ, Talia, and Dom went to Comic-Con and bonded while Dom realized he liked Thor.

