Rosaline is a forward-thinking, ambitious young lady from the house of Capulet. She has been secretly seeing Romeo, a member of the Capulets' rivals, the Montagues, and promises to meet him at the Capulet masquerade ball. Rosaline misses the ball due to a meeting with a suitor, Dario Penza, that goes awry when they are trapped on a boat in a storm; meanwhile, Romeo becomes smitten with Rosaline's cousin Juliet. Rosaline follows Romeo and sees him wooing Juliet.

Lord and Lady Capulet  on Rosaline's father Adrian, bringing Tybalt and Juliet with them. Rosaline informs Juliet that she knows of the latter's liaison with Romeo and spends more time with her, hoping to make Juliet forget about Romeo. Rosaline writes letters to Romeo and becomes dismayed when he does not write back. She learns Romeo is still courting Juliet and helps her spurn him, but Juliet finds a necklace engraved with Romeo's and Rosaline's names and realizes her cousin's plan. Juliet confidently declares Romeo will not return to Rosaline.

Rosaline convinces her friend Count Paris to court Juliet to distract from his homosexuality; the Capulets heartily accept the suit, to Juliet's dismay. Rosaline finds a letter from Romeo to Juliet and realizes the two are about to elope. Rosaline and Dario infiltrate the Montague estate, intending to stop the wedding, but are caught by guards and escape on horseback. Dario tells Rosaline he is rejoining the navy. Rosaline realizes she did not truly love Romeo and sends his letters back to Juliet, but the message is intercepted by Tybalt. Romeo kills Tybalt in a duel; their respective fathers demand that Romeo and Juliet's marriage be annulled and declare war on each other.

Dario and Rosaline come to Juliet's room, offering to smuggle her and Romeo to safety, only to learn that Juliet has already carried out her plan to fake her death. Rosaline is assumed to have been at fault, but escapes with the help of her father. She arrives at Juliet's body to find Romeo still alive, as Dario had informed him of the plan. Rosaline tells Romeo to pretend to be dead, and scolds the arriving Montagues and Capulets for their feud. The families depart. Rosaline and Dario see Romeo and Juliet off at the docks before sharing a kiss.

In a mid-credits scene, Romeo and Juliet try to find common interests on the boat.

