{{Copyedit|section|date=July 2023}}

Owen Browning is a young bank manager about to marry Parker McDermott, whose estranged parents contact her to come to the wedding. He's excited he's finally going to meet them, while she's concerned they can be a bit much. 

Owen's parents Neil and Margie are difficult. Owen calls to tell them the good news about Parker's parents attending the wedding. He first has to hear about an odd allergy of a guest, then they show their ignorance of Parker's profession as a yoga instructor, believing it involves a stripper pole. Rather than being happy about the news the other in-laws are coming, they criticize them for being absent in Parker's life.

At the bank, Owen has to free an employee who's been pranked by being locked in the vault. In doing so, he shows and talks about how state-of-the-art their bank's security system is. They point out their rival bank's vault security is considered the best in the state. Owen also points out all vaults have an emergency escape latch.

Out at dinner with his parents, they talk about the soon appearance of Parker's parents. Meanwhile, Owen talks with the storage space facility where they rent as he's hoping to access photos of Parker for a wedding photo montage. His call inadvertently alerts a crime boss Rehan to their return.

The following night, Parker's parents let themselves into the soon-to-be-married couple's home while Parker is still out leading a yoga class and scare Owen. They insist Owen calls them Billy and Lilly. The next day, Owen takes off work to spend the day with the in-laws. They pick the agenda, so they go skydiving, get tattoos, and drink. 

Within 12 hours, an infamous full-costumed pair of criminals called the "Ghost Bandits" hold up Owen’s bank, with the hungover manager back in the building. Owen notices specific indicators such as the male's cologne, giving him flashbacks to the bar the night before. He also recalls security details he told Lilly, prompting him to believe that the robbers might be his future in-laws.

FBI special agent Roger Oldham questions Owen as the bank manager with Billy and Lilly behind him. Not able to say anything, Parker insists they leave once Owen breaks out in tears. Oldham has dedicated most of his career chasing the Ghost Bandits and he's convinced they are behind the robbery.

Trying to enlist his parents' help in outing Billy and Lilly, Owen tells them his suspicions. They do ask direct and inappropriate questions at dinner, but Billy and Lilly expertly redirect the conversation. Parker later asks Owen why he is acting strangely, and while he tells her of his theory, she believes it is crazy.

Owen follows his in-laws to Rehan's and hears her threaten to kill Parker if they don't get her $5,000,000 more before the wedding. Oldham stops Owen on the highway, finds planted evidence in the trunk, and spills it on his in-laws. Oldham puts a wire on him, hoping to get Billy and Lilly to confess. Instead, Rehan shows up with her henchmen and takes Parker hostage as insurance. Disgusted, Owen joins forces with Billy and Lilly.
 
They first choose Victory Union Bank to rob. However, they lose most of the cash through a comedy of errors. So then they focus on the far bigger Atlas Reserve. Owen goes in, asking its manager Phoebe King how he can better equip his bank. Phoebe's arrogance kicks in, so she shows him all of the safeguards with him. Just as the safe open, Billy and Lilly create a diversion out front while Owen locks himself in and then uses the emergency escape latch to escape with the money.

At the ransom drop, Rehan is pleasantly surprised that Owen brought the money, but will kill them anyway. Owen miraculously guns them down as Billy and Lilly distract the cops so Owen can sneak back into the vault with the money.

As Billy and Lilly turn themselves in and help Oldham with his ex, he lets them go briefly to Owen and Parker's wedding reception.

During the credits, Owen slips a paperclip into a piece of cake for Billy and Lilly to use to get free of their handcuffs.

