David and Georgia Cotton are a divorced couple who hate each other and regret their marriage, which ended 20 years earlier. Their daughter Lily graduates from college, and goes on vacation to Bali with her friend and fellow graduate Wren. While snorkeling off the coast, their tour boat leaves them behind, and they are rescued by a young Balinese seaweed farmer named Gede. That night, Lily and Gede hit it off. A month later, Lily emails David and Georgia to let them know that she and Gede are getting married and are staying in Bali permanently, giving up her legal career before it begins. David and Georgia form a truce to try and convince Lily that she is rushing into things and making the same mistake they did. Their pilot on the flight to Bali turns out to be Paul, Georgia's boyfriend, who arranged to work this flight, and returns to visit Georgia in Bali a few days later as a surprise.

David and Georgia give their verbal blessing to Lily and Gede, but secretly plan a "Trojan horse" strategy to sabotage the wedding from within. Their scheme includes stealing the couple's wedding rings, which the couple quickly replaces. Gede immediately suspects David and Georgia, but hides his suspicions from Lily. While carrying out this plan, David and Georgia begin to mend fences with each another. They also get to know Gede and his large extended family and see that he really cares for Lily. Paul shows up and surprises Georgia with a series of marriage proposals, the first of which is interrupted by a snake bite at the temple of Tanah Lot, and the second is prevented by an accidental head-butt.

When Lily discovers the stolen rings, she demands that they get on board with the wedding or go home. She also confronts Gede, who simultaneously confesses his harbored suspicions toward David and Georgia stealing the rings. David and Georgia realize that they will lose Lily forever if they do not support her decision and offer their support. The wedding proceeds in accordance with Balinese custom. As the couple prepares to ceremonially stab a dagger through a pandan-leaf mat to complete the bond of marriage, Gede pauses the ceremony to ask David and Georgia to give their blessing sincerely this time, offering not to go through with it unless they agree. David stands up and says the couple has their blessing, but that they do not really need it, and if he and Georgia had listened to all of their own detractors (David's friends and Georgia's parents, respectively), they never would have had Lily. Despite how their marriage turned out, they are both happier in a world with Lily in it. Lily and Gede are touched, complete the ceremony and get married.

On the morning after the wedding, Georgia tells Paul that she cannot marry him, and they end their relationship. David and Georgia toy with romance again, even kissing each other once, before pulling away and laughing about it. David, Georgia and Wren exchange tearful goodbyes with Lily and board a boat to leave. David and Georgia consider their romantic prospects again, debating aloud whether they are too old to feel young again and when they might return to Bali. In a flash, they both decide to stay, jumping off the boat to return to the dock.

