In 2014,{{Efn|Between the events of ''Resident Evil 6'' (2012) and ''Resident Evil: Death Island'' (2023)}} BSAA agent Chris Redfield is tracking Glenn Arias, a former CIA operative-turned arm's dealer who is wanted by both the Interpol and FBI. 

Arias, wanting revenge against the U.S. government for killing his friends and family in a drone strike at his wedding, is developing and smuggling bioweapons into the country, so Chris and his fellow agents infiltrate a mansion in Mexico, to rescue their missing undercover source, Cathy White. Inside the mansion, Chris's fellow agents are ambushed by zombies and death traps, with Chris being the sole survivor. Chris then comes face-to-face with Arias outside the mansion. Arias then reveals that Cathy has become a zombie under his control. As Arias leaves with his associates, Maria and Diego Gomez, the BSAA rescues Chris by slaughtering Cathy and the remaining zombie horde. 

Four months later, Professor Rebecca Chambers, former S.T.A.R.S. unit member and survivor of the Mansion Incident, studies a new virus coined the "Animality Virus"—"A-virus" for short—that is capable of laying dormant inside any individual until the right trigger is presented. She identifies three components of the virus: the base virus, the triggering virus, and the vaccine. The research labs are attacked by Maria and release the virus via aerosol form. While her colleagues quickly turn into zombies, Rebecca is able to formulate a vaccine to make herself immune. After fending off some zombies, Rebecca is then rescued by Chris and his BSAA team: D.C., Damian, and Nadia. He briefs her on his mission.

Rebecca recognizes the zombies' loyalty to the host and makes a connection to Las Plagas, the bioweapon used by the Los Illuminados who Division of Security Operations (DSO) agent Leon S. Kennedy once encountered in Europe, theorizing that the remaining members of the cult are providing information to Arias in developing the A-virus. They make contact with Leon in Colorado to try to get him on board, but a guilt-ridden Leon is unwilling at first after having had to kill the SWAT team sent to back him up during a bomb threat which turned out to be a small viral outbreak. Leon also wonders how much longer they can keep fighting the BOWs and the people who create them like they have been for years. During this conversation, the trio is soon attacked by Maria and Diego. They succeed in capturing Rebecca, while Chris and Leon, who finally agrees to help finish the mission, team up to plan a rescue operation, decrypting Arias's plan of a large-scale viral attack on New York City.

As another part of Arias' plan, he intends to finish his aborted wedding and make Rebecca his bride, as she shares a striking resemblance to his late wife. (It is also revealed here that Diego and Maria are father and daughter, and close friends of Arias.) To that end, Arias develops a new strain of the A-virus which resists Rebeccas' vaccine, and injects it into her, telling her it will fully take effect after twenty minutes. 

Arias then challenges Chris to rescue Rebecca within that time frame. As Arias's associates initiate their attack on New York City by releasing the virus-laden gas via tankers, Leon and Chris's BSAA team manage to destroy the vehicles, contain the virus, and incapacitate Maria in the process, although Damian is killed by zombie dogs in the process. Chris, later joined by Leon, then infiltrates Arias's safe house, defeats Diego, and rescues Rebecca. On the terrace, Chris engages Arias himself in close-quarter combat and throws him through the glass terrace below to his demise. Diego then arrives and, despite being badly injured after being defeated by Chris, merges with Arias to form a new Tyrant monster. Chris is no match against the Tyrant until Leon joins the fight after working his way through the safe house, mowing down zombies. With the assistance of D.C. and Nadia, they manage to trap the Tyrant before Leon and Chris finish it off for good. They are then able to locate the antidote that Arias kept and successfully cure Rebecca before escaping by helicopter. As the team spreads the antidote across the city to cure the rest of the infected, Leon and Chris wonder what may lie ahead. 

In a post-credit scene, Maria is revealed to be alive and discovers the corpse of her now-dead father.

