{{Long plot|date=April 2022}}

Around 2043, overpopulation has caused a worldwide crisis, resulting in a strict one-child policy enforced by the Child Allocation Bureau. All but the eldest children are put into cryosleep. Electronic bracelets track all citizens.

Karen Settman dies while giving birth to identical septuplets. Their grandfather and Karen's father, Terrence, names them after the days of the week and trains them to pose as a single individual named after their mother, leaving the house only on the day of their name. Terrence ensures that they share information daily and replicate any physical accidents that alter their appearance. The sisters use wigs and makeup to cover up any identifying features. After a young Thursday sneaks out of the apartment and loses part of a finger skateboarding, Terrence amputates part of the index finger of each sister to mimic Thursday's injury.

In 2073, Monday prepares her disguise, nervous about giving a presentation. At a checkpoint, Monday runs into Adrian Knowles, a C.A.B. agent who talks to her. At the bank, Monday's co-worker, Jerry, a competitor for a promotion, tells her he knows her secret and hints at blackmailing her.

When Monday fails to return home, Tuesday retraces her steps. Tuesday learns that Monday got the promotion and met Jerry at a bar. Before she can investigate further, C.A.B. agents detain her and cut off her communications. In the C.A.B. facility, Adrian sees Tuesday ("Karen") escorted to a cell.  There, she meets Nicolette Cayman, head of the Bureau and a candidate for Parliament. Cayman says she knows about Tuesday's siblings, and when Tuesday offers a bribe, Cayman reveals that she  earlier had the same offered. Cayman orders C.A.B. agents to assassinate the siblings.

C.A.B. agents use an enucleated eye to bypass a retinal scanner at the Settman home. The sisters kill the agents, but Sunday is killed. Learning the eye is Tuesday's, the sisters suspect Jerry may have sold them out. The next day, Wednesday leaves without disguising herself and confronts Jerry. He reveals that "Karen" got the promotion when she sent millions of euros to Cayman to fund her campaign. After a C.A.B. sniper kills Jerry, Wednesday flees his apartment.

The others remotely guide Wednesday to safety but are interrupted when Adrian shows up at the sisters' apartment, concerned about "Karen." Surmising that Adrian has a relationship with one of them, Thursday convinces Saturday to leave with him. Saturday, a virgin, talks with Adrian at his apartment, finding out which sibling he was seeing.  She covertly links their bracelets while sleeping with him, allowing Friday to hack into the C.A.B. On a video feed, the sisters believe they have found Monday in a holding cell. Meanwhile, C.A.B. agents corner and kill Wednesday. After Adrian leaves his apartment, C.A.B. agents arrive and kill Saturday after she tells her siblings Monday was dating Adrian. The sisters' apartment is raided simultaneously by a C.A.B. squad led by Joe, the head of security of C.A.B. Admitting that she can not survive on her own, Friday sacrifices herself by blowing up their apartment to allow Thursday to escape and rescue Monday.

Adrian hears about the incident and rushes back to the Settman apartment. Thursday confronts him in his car, blaming him for her sisters' deaths. Adrian now realizes "Karen" is an assumed identity for several siblings and claims to love Monday, whom he agrees to help rescue. Adrian sneaks Thursday, concealed in a body bag, into C.A.B. headquarters. She secretly records a child undergoing cryosleep. Instead of being frozen, the child is incinerated. Adrian and Thursday discover Tuesday, missing an eye inside the cell. They search for Monday, only to discover that she has sold them out to Cayman.

At Cayman's campaign fundraiser, Thursday and Monday fight in a women's restroom, with Thursday accidentally shooting Monday. Meanwhile, Tuesday and Adrian broadcast Thursday's video footage of the child's incineration, leaving everyone at the event shocked. The now-traumatized crowd directs its attention on Cayman, who angrily confronts Thursday before her bodyguards pull her off. Monday comes out of the restroom brandishing a gun. Joe shoots Monday, thinking that she intends to kill Cayman, and Adrian kills Joe.

As the crowd flees, Monday reveals to Thursday that she is pregnant and asks her not to let the C.A.B. take her unborn twins. Thursday realizes Monday sacrificed her sisters in much the same way their grandfather cut off their fingers in order to protect her children. Monday dies from her wounds. The Child Allocation Act is abolished, and Cayman faces the death penalty for her actions, which she continues to insist were necessary. Thursday, Adrian, and Tuesday (with a new artificial eye) watch Monday's and Adrian's twins develop in an artificial womb. Tuesday declares Terry to be her new name, while Thursday declares hers to be Karen (henceforth becoming the "real" Karen Settman). As the camera dollies out, hundreds of babies are seen and heard crying in one enormous ward, as nursing staff care for them.

