Brynn is a seamstress who lives alone in her childhood home in a forest on the outskirts of a small town. Mourning the loss of both her best friend, Maude, and her mother, Sarah, she copes by constructing a model town in her living room. She leads a solitary existence and is shunned by the local townspeople. One night, she awakens to discover that an humanoid alien has broken into her home. The alien uses telekinesis to subdue her, but she accidentally kills it in self-defense with the broken fragment of a model bell tower.

Finding that her car and all of her electrical devices have been rendered useless since the alien intrusion, Brynn cycles into town, where she uncovers evidence of alien attacks on her neighbors. The town appears unaffected as she makes her way to the local police station, where she unexpectedly encounters Maude's parents, who happen to be the chief of police and his wife. Maude's embittered mother spits in Brynn's face. Brynn flees the town on a bus, but several passengers attempt to restrain her and are revealed to be controlled by alien parasites placed in their throats. She escapes and discovers that many of the townspeople now appear to be under the parasites' control.

Brynn returns home and fortifies her house. That evening, a tractor beam from a flying saucer carries the alien's corpse out of her house, and she is forced to fend off two more alien intruders; she impales the smaller one with a broken mop handle and immolates the bigger one when its legs become entangled in her car and she ignites the gas tank. After she runs back into her house, another alien restrains her and places a parasite in her mouth, seemingly being forced to do so against its will. Brynn experiences an intense hallucination in which her life is back to normal and Maude is still alive. She apologizes to Maude before breaking free of the hallucination and pulling the parasite from her mouth, finding herself lying in a field. A flying saucer arrives and transforms the parasite into a doppelgänger of Brynn, which pursues the real Brynn into the woods.

The doppelgänger catches Brynn and stabs her, but Brynn kills it with a box cutter and escapes to a deserted road. She encounters a gigantic alien before being sucked into a flying saucer, where she is psychically probed by a group of aliens, revealing the event that turned the town against her: during an argument she had with Maude when both were children, Maude knocked Brynn to the ground and Brynn struck Maude with a rock, accidentally killing her. The aliens converse with one another and appear to agree on a course of action. They return Brynn to the deserted road, unharmed and free of their influence.

Brynn is later shown living a happy life in her repaired home. The other residents of the town are under control of the parasites and, in stark contrast with life before the invasion, greet her warmly and enjoy her company. In the sky, numerous flying saucers are seen stretching off into the horizon.

