After helping the 110th US Army CID Military Police (MP) arrest corrupt Oklahoma Sheriff Raymond Wood, his local deputy and bust a human trafficking ring, drifter and ex-US Army Military Police investigator and  major, Jack Reacher, returns to his old military headquarters in Washington, D.C., to meet Major Susan Turner, with whom he has been working by phone during his travels. He learns from Colonel Sam Morgan that Turner has been accused of espionage and arrested.

Evidence shows that Turner is involved in the murders of two US Army MP soldiers in Afghanistan, but Reacher believes she is being framed. He meets with Turner's lawyer, Army J.A.G. Colonel Moorcroft to find out what the charges are against her. Moorcroft informs him that an old acquaintance of his, Candice Dutton, has filed a paternity suit against him, claiming he is the biological father of her 15-year-old daughter, Samantha. Reacher tries to reach out to her, but she rebuffs him.

Moorcroft, is later beaten to death by the Hunter, an ex-SOCOM operator-turned mercenary who frames Reacher for the murder. Reacher is arrested and transported to the prison where Turner is being detained. When two hitmen arrive, he neutralizes them, then escapes with Turner. They go to Morgan's, having deduced he is involved in the conspiracy. The Hunter later kills Morgan and again frames Reacher.

Reacher and Turner uncover surveillance pictures of Samantha and surmise she is in danger. Arriving at her home, they find her foster parents killed and her hiding. The three travel to Turner's old private school for protection, but discover that Samantha or 'Sam' has her mobile phone with her, which the enemy has likely tracked. They make a quick exit, during which Sam steals credit cards from one of the students.

The trio goes to New Orleans in search of Daniel Prudhomme, the only eyewitness to the murders for which Turner has been framed. En route, Sam reveals that it was she who filed the paternity suit, to gain financial support from Reacher for her mother. 

Reacher and Turner find Prudhomme in a derelict warehouse filled with drug addicts. Prudhomme turns out to be connected to Parasource, a private military organization that is trying to cover up the murders. Reacher contacts Turner's friend, Captain Anthony Espin, to move him into custody, but they are ambushed by Parasource operatives and Prudhomme is killed, while Reacher rescues a wounded Espin. Parasource's CEO, General James Harkness, sends the Hunter to capture Sam.

Reacher, Turner, Espin and a team of MPs, acting on information from Prudhomme, intercept a shipment of weapons due to enter the country, where they confront Harkness and his men. Espin finds antitank weapons, as declared in the flight manifest. They also learn that Harkness framed Turner, who had been investigating his activities, for the murders of the two soldiers who had discovered that Harkness was selling weapons to insurgents and smuggling opium into the US.

The Hunter and his men chase Sam through New Orleans to lure Reacher into a confrontation. While Reacher and Turner kill his henchmen, The Hunter captures Sam on a rooftop. However, when Reacher arrives, she manages to escape. He tackles the Hunter and they have a vicious fight, ending with Reacher breaking the Hunter's arm, leg, and neck, before dumping his body off the rooftop.

Following Harkness' arrest, Turner is reinstated to her command. Reacher promises to keep in touch, then goes to meet Sam at a diner. He tells her he will recognize her mother, if he knows her, as he remembers every woman he has slept with. Samantha reveals that the waitress that had been serving him is, in fact, her mother, so Reacher cannot be her father, as neither had recognized the other. 

Reacher and Sam then reluctantly part. As he is walking along a road, he is surprised to hear a phone she had slipped into his pocket rings. Reacher finds a text message from Sam reading, "Miss me yet?". He smiles as he sticks out his thumb to hitch a ride.

