In 2002, from his lair behind the Hollywood Sign, Dr. Evil unveils to Number 2, Mini-Me, Frau Farbissina, and Scott Evil his plan for world domination: traveling back in time to 1975 and partnering with the Dutch, gold-obsessed Johann van der Smut, who, after losing his genitalia in a smelting accident, is known by the alias "Goldmember". Goldmember developed a power unit for a tractor beam ("Preparation H") and intends to use it to pull a meteor into the earth. Austin Powers is on his way to watch a movie about his life while the Ministry of Defence arrests Dr. Evil and Mini-Me. Queen Elizabeth II knights Austin for his service, but he is disappointed when his father, the famous spy Nigel Powers, does not attend the event. During an after party, Basil Exposition informs Austin that Nigel has been kidnapped. Their only clue is that the crew of Nigel's yacht have had their genitalia painted gold.

Austin seeks the imprisoned Dr. Evil's help to find the culprit. Dr. Evil antagonizes Austin by reminding him that Nigel was also absent when Austin was given the title of "International Man of Mystery" during their British Intelligence academy graduation, an event that angered Dr. Evil due to him being the top of the class. Dr. Evil eventually reveals that Goldmember is behind the abduction, so Austin time travels to 1975 and infiltrates Goldmember's roller disco club. He is reunited with his former lover, undercover FBI agent Foxxy Cleopatra. Austin locates his father but is unable to rescue him. Goldmember takes Nigel through Dr. Evil's time machine to 2002. Dr. Evil and Mini-Me instigate a riot in their prison and escape. Number 3, a British Intelligence mole, informs Austin that Dr. Evil has moved to a new lair near Tokyo.

Austin and Foxxy travel to Tokyo and confront Fat Bastard, who is now a Sumo wrestler. Fat Bastard reveals that businessman Mr. Roboto is working on a device for Dr. Evil and Goldmember. Austin and Foxxy meet with Roboto, who pleads ignorance. The duo infiltrate Roboto's factory where the command unit for the tractor beam is being loaded in Goldmember's car, and Roboto gives Goldmember a golden key needed to activate the beam. Foxxy confronts Goldmember while Austin attempts to free Nigel. However, Goldmember escapes and flees to Dr. Evil's submarine. Roboto then dies when Scott Evil makes him fall into a shark pool. Dr. Evil replaces Mini-Me with Scott as his favored son and the rejected clone defects, joining Austin and Foxxy.

The trio infiltrate the submarine, where Austin is captured. Before Dr. Evil can activate the tractor beam, Foxxy steals the key and frees Austin. Austin prepares to shoot Dr. Evil, when Nigel appears and reveals that Austin and Dr. Evil are actually brothers. Confused, Dr. Evil explains that his parents died in a car accident and he was brought up by evil Belgians, but Nigel reveals that the explosion came from an assassination attempt and he thought that only Austin survived. Dr. Evil (revealed to be named Dougie), Austin, Nigel, and Mini-Me embrace; enraging Scott, who leaves to pursue his own vengeance while Goldmember commandeers the tractor beam's controls, revealing his gold-covered genitalia to be a spare key. Goldmember activates the tractor beam, but Austin and Dr. Evil work together to reverse its polarity, destroying the meteor and saving the world.

The entire story is later adapted into ''Austinpussy'', a film directed by Steven Spielberg, starring Tom Cruise, Kevin Spacey, Danny DeVito and John Travolta. Upon exiting the cinema, Austin and Foxxy encounter Fat Bastard, now thin but with sagging flesh thanks to the Subway diet. As Austin and Foxxy kiss, Scott Evil – now completely bald and behaving as his father, declares he will get his revenge against Austin. During the end credits, Mini-Me talks with Britney Spears, who wants to give him her phone number.

