Tired of being rejected by the beautiful women he lusts after, Chuck Barris moves to Manhattan to become an NBC page with dreams of becoming famous in television but is eventually fired. He moves back to Philadelphia and becomes Dick Clark's personal assistant on ''American Bandstand'' in 1961. He writes the successful song "Palisades Park" and becomes romantically involved with a woman named Penny Pacino. Chuck is given permission to pitch the concept for ''The Dating Game'' at ABC. He is given $7,500 to create a television pilot, but ABC abandons the idea in favor of ''Hootenanny''.

One night after Barris is kicked out of a bar for fighting, he is approached by CIA agent Jim Byrd, who recruits him as an assassin. Returning from a mission in Mexico, Barris finds that Penny has become a hippie. Meanwhile, ABC green-lights ''The Dating Game'', and by 1967 the show is a phenomenon.

On a CIA mission in Helsinki, Finland, he meets female operative Patricia Watson. He finds more success back home when ''The Newlywed Game'' goes on air. He and Penny decide to move to Los Angeles, but Barris is cautious of marriage, much to Penny's dismay. In 1970, Byrd convinces Barris to go on a mission to West Berlin to assassinate Hans Colbert. Barris is introduced to German-American agent Keeler, whom he helps to kill Colbert. However, he is captured by the KGB and, after some weeks, freed during a west–east spy exchange.

In 1976, Barris creates ''The Gong Show,'' becoming famous as its host. Keeler is murdered and Byrd warns Barris of a mole in the agency. His TV shows are canceled due to poor ratings, and Penny threatens to leave after catching him cheating. One night, Barris finds Byrd sitting atop the diving board of his backyard pool. Byrd reveals why he was chosen by the CIA to become an assassin: he is the son of a serial killer and had been raised as a girl by his mother, so he "fit the profile". Barris threatens Byrd and, moments later, Byrd is revealed to have died while still sitting on the diving board.

Faced with the unpleasant truth about himself, Barris begins to spiral out of control. After almost having a nervous breakdown on ''The Gong Show'', Barris shuts himself away in a New York City hotel. Penny finds him and tries in vain to convince him to return to California to get married.

Barris finally leaves his room to meet Patricia in Boston. After a cup of coffee, Barris collapses, seemingly poisoned. Patricia reveals that she is the mole. Barris has tricked Patricia into drinking from the poisoned cup, and she falls dead. After her death, he returns home and begins writing his autobiography, ''Confessions of a Dangerous Mind''. He finally decides to marry Penny. At the end of the ceremony, Barris sees some of the people he killed in the crowd. Distraught, he confesses to Penny his double life as a CIA assassin, but she merely laughs, assuming he is joking, and Barris decides not to correct Penny.

