Vance "Van" Wilder is a confident and sardonic 7th-year senior at Coolidge College who spends his days driving around campus in his customized golf cart, posing nude for figure drawing classes, and organizing soirees and fundraisers for his peers. Upon learning that his son is still in school, his father severs financial support. Van seeks a payment extension from the registrar, Deloris Haver. After having sex with her, Deloris hands him the paperwork for an extension, which Van realizes he only needed to ask for it.

After a couple of attempts to get money fast, Van is approached by the Lambda Omega Omega fraternity, offering to pay him $1000 to throw them a blowout party to boost their popularity. Gwen Pearson, a reporter for the school paper, writes a story crediting Van as the host of the party. Van, who normally refuses to do interviews for the paper, realizes the article can be the "cash cow" he needs to stay in school and agrees to sit down with Gwen for a follow-up piece.

Gwen's boyfriend, Richard "Dick" Bagg, is a pre-med student and the president of his fraternity Delta Iota Kappa, as well as of the student government. As he learns of Gwen's work with Van, suspecting a growing bond between them, he moves to sabotage their prospective romance. Van and Richard exchange escalating pranks. Gwen learns that Van stopped attending classes years ago, 18 units short of graduation. Angry that she dug into such personal details, Van disassociates himself from Gwen, taking a contemplative look at his life. 

Richard arranges to sabotage Van's latest party with Jeannie, a member of a sister sorority, by smuggling children in and getting them drunk, then calling campus police to the scene. Van is arrested for providing alcohol to minors and faces expulsion from Coolidge. He prepares to leave the college until his friend Taj inspires him to fight the charges.

Van throws himself at the mercy of the court, asking that rather than expelling him, they force him to graduate; he offers to complete his remaining units before the semester ends, earning an degree in leisure studies. The academic board votes 3–2 in favor of Van's reinstatement; Professor McDougal's was the decisive vote for reinstatement, surprisingly. Van begins studying for the finals, which will be held in 6 days.

Outside the court, Jeannie reveals Richard's plot to Gwen, as well as his infidelity. Angered by this, Gwen pretends to forgive Richard then spikes his protein shake with a powerful laxative just before his entrance exam to Northwestern Medical School. While taking the exam, Richard begins to have uncontrollable flatulence and hurries down the line with his exam, not even reading the questions due to his dire need for a release. As he then rushes to the bathroom, Richard is intercepted by his future alumni intended to interview him for his entrance. Unable to hold it in any longer, Richard strips off his pants and proceeds to defecate violently in a wastebasket in front of the doctors, much to their horror and disgust.

Van uses the entire exam period for his last final with his least favorite professor, Prof. McDougal, who later delivers the news to Van that he passed. McDougal explains that he'd been so hard on him all those years because he believed that Van wasn't living up to his potential, not because Van had also hooked up with McDougal's daughter freshmen year. Gwen finishes her article on Van for the graduation issue revealing his many contributions to the students and staff of Coolidge in the last 7 years, his superhuman accomplishment of doing a semester's worth of studying in just 6 days, and Richard's plot to have Van expelled; both Richard's reputation and medical school dreams are permanently tarnished.

The university celebrates Van's graduation with a wild party held in his honor. His father, having read Gwen's article, admits that he was wrong and expresses his pride in Van's success. Gwen arrives, lovingly reunites with Van.

