{{Long plot|date=October 2023}}
The OSS now has a full child spy section, of which Carmen Cortez and Juni Cortez are now full-time agents. Although they are the first of the new Spy Kids Division, they face fierce competition from Gary and Gerti Giggles, the children of Donnagon Giggles (an agent whom Carmen and Juni rescued on their first mission). Carmen defends Gary, even after the two outperform them on a mission to rescue the president's daughter Alexandra from an out of control theme park ride, straining her relationship with Juni.

At the OSS awards banquet, Donnagon hacks into the president's teleprompter, and is named director of the OSS instead of Gregorio Cortez. Shortly after, the adults are rendered unconscious by a group of "Magna Men", who are seeking the "Transmooker", a highly coveted device which can shut off all electronic devices. The children hold them off but the Magna Men steal the Transmooker after Gary causes Juni to drop it in a scuffle. Gary blames Juni for the theft, resulting in him being fired from the OSS.

The next morning Carmen hacks into the database, reinstating Juni as an agent and taking the Ukata assignment, a mission originally meant for Gary and Gerti, to recover the stolen Transmooker. Using some hints from their former arch-nemesis, Alexander Minion, they follow the trail to a mysterious island where no electronics work. Meanwhile, Gary and Gerti are rerouted to the Gobi Desert and while trying to pinpoint their position fall into a pit of camel feces, whereupon they swear revenge.

Shortly after reaching the island, Carmen and Juni meet Romero, a scientist and sole human inhabitant of the island who has been attempting to create genetically miniaturized animals to sell to kids as "miniature zoos". After creating hybrid animals, Romero accidentally poured a growth concoction over them, greatly increasing their size. He also reveals that he created the Transmooker device as a mean of hiding his island from the outside world, meaning that the stolen Transmooker was a prototype and the real one is on the island. Romero fears being eaten, so is unwilling to leave his lab, but shows Carmen and Juni the way to the real Transmooker. After being informed of their disappearance, Gregorio and Ingrid begin tracking down Carmen and Juni, and they are joined by Ingrid's parents.

Carmen is captured by a Spork, a flying pig, and dropped into its nest with Gerti, who tells her that Gary is genuinely evil. Carmen's feelings for Gary change after he attacks Juni, leading her to incapacitate Gary. Romero, encouraged by Juni, leaves his lab and discovers his creatures are much friendlier than he thought. Carmen and Juni eventually find and recover the Transmooker, eliminating the cloaking around the island, and are surprised when their family joins them. Donnagon then confronts the group, takes the Transmooker and, after a fight with Gregorio tries to destroy the Cortez family with it, but it malfunctions. Gerti reveals she sabotaged it and threatens Donnagon with telling everything to her mother, which he detests. Romero arrives alongside his creatures and destroys the prototype Transmooker as well.

The President and his staff arrive on the island. He and his daughter fire Donnagon; Gary is temporarily disavowed, and Alexandra appoints Gregorio as director of the OSS on her father's behalf. Even though he is offered a promotion, Juni resigns due to the impersonal treatment he had received by the OSS after being framed. As the Cortez family leaves the island, Romero gives Juni a miniature spider-monkey as a gift, and the island's inhabitants bid farewell to the Cortez family.

During the credits, Isador "Machete" Cortez hosts a concert featuring Carmen (with a microphone which helps her sing, and a belt that helps her dance), and Juni (with a guitar that plays itself), but realizes too late that he never put any batteries in the devices before they went onstage. When he breaks this news to Carmen and Juni, this shocks them, realizing they have musical talent. Meanwhile, Dinky Winks, the owner of Troublemakers theme park where Juni rescued Alexandra, paddles to Romero's island to offer a business deal.

