During a Little League Baseball game in the small fictional town of Millbrook, New York, the Abbott family – wife Evelyn, husband Lee, deaf daughter Regan, and sons Marcus and Beau – and other spectators witness a strange meteor-like object hurtle toward the Earth. Shortly after, hostile extraterrestrial creatures emerge from the meteor and begin slaughtering the townspeople. The blind creatures possess armored skin, extraordinary speed, and strength, and track victims with hypersensitive hearing, attacking anything that makes noise.

Over a year later, the creatures have killed much of the Earth's population, including Lee and Beau.{{efn|As depicted in ''A Quiet Place'' (2018)}} Regan has discovered that high-frequency audio feedback makes them vulnerable, and devises a makeshift method of transmitting the noise from her cochlear implant through a portable microphone. With their home destroyed, the family searches for other survivors. Entering a fenced-off area, Evelyn accidentally sets off a sound alarm, alerting the creatures. As they flee, Marcus steps into a bear trap, attracting a creature with his screams. Regan and Evelyn kill the creature, free Marcus, and run into an abandoned steel foundry.

An old friend, Emmett, takes them to his soundproof underground hideout. Emmett, who has recently lost his family and developed a cynical outlook on life, refuses to help further. Marcus hears the song "Beyond the Sea" playing on the radio, and Emmett says the song has aired continuously for four months. Regan determines it is a hint that survivors are on a nearby island a day's travel to the southeast. She theorizes that if she can reach the island's radio tower the hearing aid's high-frequency noise can be broadcast so other survivors can weaponize the signal. She ventures out alone to find the island; Emmett saves her from a creature. Regan persuades him to help complete her mission. Evelyn leaves Marcus and her newborn baby at the foundry to fetch medical supplies in town. Marcus discovers the corpse of Emmett's wife. Startled, he alerts a creature and accidentally locks himself and the baby inside an air-tight compartment.

Emmett and Regan arrive at a marina to board a boat to the island. They are attacked by bandits, and Emmett deliberately attracts creatures that slaughter the attackers. When one creature drowns, he realizes that the creatures cannot swim. The two row to the island where a small colony of survivors are living normally. The colony leader reveals that when the U.S. government discovered the creatures were unable to swim, the U.S. National Guard attempted to move people to the islands. However, the chaos from boarding created noise that attracted the creatures, leaving only two boats that made it to the island.

Evelyn returns and frees her children before they suffocate. The three hide inside the bunker as the creature prowls the foundry. At the island the next day, a creature that's drifted to the island attacks the colonists and kills the colony leader. At the radio station, Regan transmits the high frequency via the station's signal and plays it over the station's speakers, incapacitating the creature and killing it.

At the foundry, Marcus picks up Regan's transmission and plays the high-pitched frequency through his portable radio before shooting the creature. Regan leaves the hearing aid connected to the radio station's microphone, allowing the broadcast signal to be weaponized by others.

