On July 30, 2020, while the United Kingdom is under COVID-19 pandemic lockdown, a group of friends (Haley, Jemma, Emma, Caroline, Radina & Teddy) have decided to hold weekly Zoom calls to stay in touch. For this week's call Haley has hired a medium, Seylan, to lead them in a virtual séance. Teddy is forced to leave the chat by his girlfriend, Ginny, who unintentionally disconnects him. During the séance, one of the members, Jemma, claims to feel intense tension around her neck. Overcome with fear, she says that somebody called "Jack" is with her, a friend who committed suicide in her school by hanging himself. Seylan's internet cuts out, disconnecting her from the chat. During this time, Jemma informs the group that she made "Jack" up because the silence was getting awkward, which angers Haley. The remaining members of the group begin to experience strange, terrifying phenomena: Haley's chair is pulled by an unseen force, a hanging corpse can be seen in Caroline's attic when she goes to investigate noises, and Emma's glass spontaneously breaks. Haley uses her Polaroid camera to snap a photo of her living room, where a ghostly hanging figure appears on the print.

As the girls panic, Haley manages to get back in touch with Seylan and informs her of everything that has happened; a spirit is indeed with them, but it isn't friendly. Seylan explains that she believes Jemma's prank may have allowed the spirit or demon access to our world, entering the circle during the séance. Seylan also informs the girls that the demonic spirit could be a tulpa which has taken on the guise of "Jack" in Jemma's made-up story, and begins to give them instructions on how to close the séance. The spirit interrupts this by causing more phenomena, and Seylan disconnects again before the girls attempt to close the circle using her advice. Believing the ordeal to be over, the members of the group begin to leave the Zoom call; Radina gets up and leaves the room unaware of her boyfriend Alan’s body hanging behind her. Caroline's artificial background is interrupted as her face is smashed into the camera, causing her laptop to fall. Emma's camera shows one of her filters on an invisible figure in the living room, which turns to face her. She then scatters flour on the floor, showing the footprints of the spirit coming towards her and causing her kitchen cupboards to burst open before the spirit attacks her, causing her to hide in her room.

Radina attempts to flee her home after her boyfriend Alan's dead body drops in front of her, but she is pulled away from the door and killed by the spirit. Caroline is killed when the demon repeatedly smashes her face onto the desk, as she pleads for help. Haley and Jemma argue, blaming each other for what has occurred, when Haley is pulled out of the room. Shocked, Jemma, who lives around the corner from Haley, immediately leaves her home to try and help her. Teddy then returns to the call, as ten minutes remain until the Zoom meeting ends. Unaware of everything that has occurred, Teddy is attacked by the spirit (in the form of a horrifying figure). Chased through his house, a panicked Teddy witnesses Ginny's neck being snapped by an unseen force before he himself is knocked down, set on fire and killed. Emma, now the only person still active in the call, fearfully turns her camera to the doorway of her room after her door suddenly opens. She throws a blanket, which lands on the invisible spirit, showing its form. Terrified, Emma opens her window to flee, but accidentally falls to her death.

Jemma arrives at Haley's home and finds, via the open Zoom call on Haley's laptop, that both Emma and Teddy are dead. The invisible spirit throws a bottle at her head while the cupboards burst open. She manages to find Haley hiding under her desk, and the pair attempt to escape the house using the flash of Haley's Polaroid camera to light the way. The invisible spirit suddenly appears in the flash of light in the form of a man with a mutilated face and it rushes at them as the Zoom call timer abruptly expires.

