Evelyn re-closes Chicago's wall, and puts Jeanine's coup supporters on trial for their lives. Johanna turns her back on this, and is followed by many newly christened Allegiants. Tris and Four free Caleb and escape over the wall with Tori, Christina, and Peter. Edgar leads Factionless guards to catch them, killing Tori. Edgar catches them in the wastelands, but unknown soldiers with advanced technology rescue the group.

The group is taken to the Bureau of Genetic Welfare, a city of advanced technology hidden behind a cloaking shield. Society's problems were caused by some people tampering with their offspring's genes to give them advantages, but this led to the Purity Wars that destroyed most of the planet. The genetically "pure" (as compared to those with gene modifications, the "damaged") created the Bureau and its series of experiments, located in isolated ruined cities, in an attempt to trigger a naturally pure genome; Tris is the first to show the desired outcome.

Caleb and Peter are assigned to surveillance teams that remotely monitor Chicago, while Christina and Four are assigned to train under Nita in the military. Matthew brings Tris to David, the leader of the Bureau, who gives Tris a device that allows her to view her mother's memories. She sees that her mother was rescued from the wastelands as a child, then volunteered to join the Chicago experiment. Caleb warns Four and Tris of the conflict in Chicago between Allegiants and Factionless. Tris agrees to help David to continue the experiment if he asks the council to intervene in the fighting.

During a military rescue mission to a wasteland village, Four realizes that the Bureau is kidnapping children and wiping their memories. He attempts to warn Tris of the Bureau's intentions, but David interrupts them. Four urges Tris to return with him to end the bloodshed, but she decides to go with David, who agrees to return Four to Chicago with Matthew and some Bureau soldiers. En route, Matthew quietly warns Four that David has ordered his death. Four kills the soldiers, but the transport crashes. Matthew gives Four a device to allow passage through the cloaking shield. Matthew returns to the Bureau — and warns Tris.

Tris disagrees with the council's actions, saying that pure versus damaged is no better than the Chicago Factions, and chastises their refusal to stop the violence in Chicago. The council reveals that David, not them, has full authority over Chicago. David tells her that he intends to reinforce the Factions.

Tris ends her partnership with David and gathers Caleb and Christina in David's hovercar to return to Chicago. Nita helps them escape, revealing that David's rule is not popular with the Bureau. The Factionless capture Four, who confronts Evelyn about ending the violence. Tris, Caleb, and Christina arrive to find the city tearing itself apart at the opening stage of a full assault by the Allegiant. At the Bureau, David makes a deal with Peter in exchange for Peter's promotion and insertion into Chicago to convince Evelyn to deploy a hidden Bureau stockpile of amnesia gas, creating peace by wiping all factions' memories. She agrees, so Peter takes her to a hidden vault.

Four, Tris and Christina fight through the Factionless and arrive at the vault. Four convinces Evelyn to stop the gas attack, as he would not remember her. She capitulates, but a frustrated Peter shoots her in the leg, gloating until the same gas starts flooding the vault itself. Realizing David has betrayed him, Peter opens the vault so that Tris and Four can stop the gas. Peter flees back towards the Bureau, though Four vows to find and kill him.

Caleb arrives and aids Tris in destroying the gas dispersion hub. The group gathers atop the Erudite building as it watches David's hovercar, which autopilots back towards the Bureau. Tris transmits a message to the world, revealing the existence of Bureau and that Chicago was an experiment in genetic purity. Her message tells the Bureau that Chicago is no longer their experiment. Caleb then detonates the explosives they loaded in the hovercar, disrupting the cloak shield and revealing the Bureau to the world.

