{{Long plot|date=October 2022}}
Annie Hardy is a right-wing internet personality and musician who live streams out of her car, making music and using her viewers' comments as lyrics. Tired of COVID-19 restrictions and homelessness in Los Angeles, Annie books a flight to London. There, she pays a visit to her former bandmate Stretch, who now works as a food delivery driver and lives at his girlfriend Gemma's house. Although Stretch is initially pleased to reunite with Annie, Gemma quickly clashes with her over their views on COVID-19 and politics. Annie accompanies Stretch on his delivery job where she frustrates Stretch and antagonizes restaurant owners with her anti-mask views.

Returning home, a furious Gemma attacks Annie. Annie later overhears Gemma forcing Stretch to kick her out. In response, Annie steals Stretch's car and phone before deciding to take a delivery for him, intending to eat it herself. When she arrives at the restaurant, Annie is surprised to find it abandoned before she encounters the owner, who offers Annie a large sum of money to transport a frail old woman named Angela to a particular address. Annie reluctantly accepts the offer and begins driving with Angela while live-streaming everything to her fans. Angela soils herself, forcing the pair to stop at a diner. While cleaning Angela, Annie discovers an Ariana Grande tattoo on her stomach. A woman soon enters the diner looking for Angela and attacks Annie. Annie fends her off and witnesses Angela exhibiting strange powers before fleeing back to the car.

Stretch, having tracked Annie down via the live stream, forces his way into the car where they are both unnerved by Angela suddenly appearing inside. As they drive away, Stretch and Annie get into an argument before pulling over. Angela vanishes and Stretch ventures into the nearby forest to find her. He soon finds her standing atop a tree and falls trying to reach her, after which Angela floats to the ground. The woman who attacked Annie returns with a shotgun and attempts to kill Annie and Stretch. They escape her and return to the car with Angela. As they drive away, Annie discovers that Angela's mouth has been stapled shut. When Angela rips the staples off, blood pours out and she attempts to bite Annie, distracting Stretch. He crashes into another car, killing two newlyweds inside. Angela attacks the pair, showing supernatural abilities.

Fleeing, the duo attempt to flag down a passing car, which hits Stretch. The shotgun-wielding woman exits the car and reveals herself to be Angela's mother, attempting to track her down. She holds Stretch hostage and threatens to shoot him if Annie doesn't tell her where Angela is. Meanwhile, the livestream goes viral and a horde of viewers enter the chat. Annie attempts to drive away in the mother's car. Annie gets shot at, crashes the car, and is attacked. With the help of Stretch, Annie manages to trap the mother's arm in the steering wheel and snap it. Distraught and desperate, Angela's mother explains that she is actually 16 years old and shows a recent photo of a young Angela with the same tattoo. However, Angela appears, rips her mother's head off, and pursues Annie and Stretch.

The pair seek refuge in an abandoned amusement park but Angela quickly hunts them down and kills Stretch. Annie escapes and drives away in another car but Angela, who is chasing the car, causes it to crash. Angela breaks into the car trying to kill Annie and uses her powers to push the car into a lake. Annie traps Angela in the car and escapes, collapsing on the shore. Unbeknownst to Annie, Angela levitates out of the water. Annie enters a remote house and makes her way inside, finding it abandoned. Annie celebrates her victory over Angela and soon realizes she is at the address she was instructed to take Angela to. Supernatural forces stop Annie from escaping and she flees, stumbling across occult symbols. Annie encounters a group of cult members who slit their throats simultaneously before being attacked by Angela. Annie uses a knife to kill Angela. At the same time, a humanoid, slug-like creature bursts out of Angela's mouth and hunts for Annie, who flees into a tunnel, where she finds Stretch's wrecked car, among other vehicles. Annie uses her keyboard to beat the creature to death.

Exhausted from the night's events, Annie collapses in Stretch's car, and the livestream starts up again. As viewers enter the chat, Annie starts to rap about her experiences, then breaks the fourth wall upon returning home to Los Angeles, rapping about the crew of the film as the credits roll.

