17-year-old Rain Burroughs (Madison Iseman) suffers from early on-set schizophrenia and is admitted to hospital following a psychotic episode. She later reveals to her therapist that she has not been taking her medication as it interferes with her ability to paint.

Her mother Michelle (Katherine Heigl) and father John (Harry Connick Jr) are both very supportive, but when Rain returns to school, she is disowned by her friends who make fun of her mental illness. However, a new boy, Caleb (Israel Broussard), notices her and they begin hanging out.

One night while having a bad dream, Rain sees a vision of her teacher Ms McConnell (also her next-door neighbour) dancing with a small child. She wakes up and looks through her bedroom window into Ms McConnell’s attic window, and sees the girl quickly snatched from view. The next morning, Rain and John visit Ms McConnell's and she allows them to search the attic. They find nothing but dolls and mannequins that Ms McConnell claims belonged to her late grandmother. Rain tells Caleb what she saw and he believes her. They later break into her home to find the girl, but they are unsuccessful.

Rain and Caleb search for missing children online and find a missing girl called Malia who Rain says looks just like the girl she saw in the attic. Caleb later learns of Rain's illness and she opens up to him. Michelle starts to question if Caleb is real, or if he is a figment of Rain's imagination. Rain and Caleb attempt to search Ms McConnell's home again but she hears them break a window and calls the police. John gets angry and confronts Rain, insisting she take a dose of her meds. She taunts him by shoving several of her pills in her mouth. John tries to force her to spit them out, when she bites his finger, he slaps her.

The following evening, Rain and Caleb kiss for the first time in her living room. Michelle surprises them, confirming to Rain that Caleb is real, but then he leaves abruptly. The next day at school, Rain sees Caleb is absent and believes she actually invented him in her mind. She goes to see her therapist but she is not there. Rain returns home where she suffers a mental breakdown. Michelle tries to comfort her but Rain lashes out. John then reveals Michelle died three years ago and her presence has been Rain's imagination the whole time.

Hysterical, Rain breaks into Ms McConnell’s home again and makes a further investigation of the attic. She has a vision of her mother and converses with her spirit. Ms McConnell arrives home and sits down to dinner. As Rain tries to sneak out, she sees that the basement door is now locked, but she is able to steal the keys and unlock the door. Rain finds Malia locked in a cage in the basement. When they hear Ms McConnell come down to investigate, Rain hides in the cage with Malia. Ms McConnell tells Rain she wants to help her and will not report her to the police, and that Malia is not real. Rain does not know what to believe, but at that moment, Caleb appears and subdues Ms McConnell, giving Rain and Malia a chance to escape.

John arrives and confirms to Rain that Malia is real, and that she was right all along. Caleb then emerges from the garage and is also confirmed to be real.

Weeks later, Rain is recovering; new medication is working and she has stopped having as many hallucinations. She and John visit Michelle's grave. Later, as Rain is falling asleep in her room, a vision of Michelle sleeps beside her, reassuring her that her mother is forever with her in her memory.

