A pair of seaplane lovers and operators, Kaz Fellows and her boyfriend, Charlie Brody, along with their passengers, Joji Minase, his wife, Michelle and cook Benny, take a flight to picturesque Hell's Reef. Upon landing they encounter a corpse that has washed up after a suspected shark attack. They report it to the coast guard but find the man's phone has a picture of his girlfriend.

Benny and Charlie coax the others into tracking the yacht the couple were on in case she survived. Joji believes it hopeless and objects to being put at risk. Kaz flies off with all five searching for the missing damaged yacht. They find the yacht capsized and Benny dives in to investigate the wreck in case the girl is trapped inside. He finds her partially consumed corpse and returns to the seaplane whereupon the great white shark reappears and attacks one of the floats of the seaplane. The seaplane begins to sink so all five depart for the plane's life raft.

Drifting in the current, Charlie tries to navigate using the life raft's meager compass and oars. Michelle and Joji take a shift rowing the raft, but Michelle nods off and loses one of the oars. Kaz dives into the water and retrieves the oar. Benny and Joji get into a scuffle due to the latter's jealousy and Joji pushes Benny, who falls in water and is attacked and killed by the great white. The shark then attacks the raft, flipping everyone into the water. Joji is killed swimming back to the raft.

With no provisions and only one oar, Michelle, Kaz and Charlie try to row with their hands. The shark returns, but Charlie, to his horror, realizes that there is now more than just one shark. Kaz is knocked into the water, but manages to get back to the raft unhurt. The next day, Michelle spots land but the raft has started to deflate. Realizing that they will surely sink and be at the mercy of both sharks, Charlie and Kaz decide to try to distract the sharks in order for Michelle to make it to land.

Kaz, who turned out to be pregnant with Charlie's child, manages to hit one of the sharks with a flare and Charlie pierces its eye and brain with his knife, killing it. Meanwhile, Michelle manages to get onto a rusted piece of debris from an old shipwreck. Charlie reloads the second flare and then attempts to take out the remaining shark. While embracing Charlie, Kaz spots the oncoming shark. Charlie turns to shoot, but misses with his flare and is attacked and killed by the shark. Kaz manages to escape to Michelle. The great white shark attacks, knocking both women into the water. Kaz tries to distract the shark once more while Michelle swims for the shore.

Kaz hides in the damaged shipwreck as the shark attacks and it becomes ensnared in some metal. Kaz, unable to reach her breathing equipment, drifts into unconsciousness and almost drowns. But before she succumbs, Michelle returns and manages to revive Kaz with mouth to mouth. Kaz springs into action and manages to dislodge some of the structure impaling the shark and killing it. Both Kaz and Michelle swim to the shore and reflect on their escape.

