Margot and her cameraman friend Chris want to make a documentary about Margot's past. Her mother, Sarah, abandoned her outside a hospital, and she wonders what drove Sarah to make such a drastic decision. Through a genetics site, she and Chris meet her blood relative Samuel, who is an Amish currently going through his rumspringa. After the three fly to Buffalo, NY, they are joined by Dale, their documentary's soundman. Samuel leads them to Beiler Farm, where he and Margot's mother came from.

Jacob, the patriarch of the commune and Sarah's father, welcomes the team, and they find lodging in a rustic room. Late at night, Margot wakes up and discovers red lights moving in the distance; Samuel dismisses it as a hunting party. Margot visits the barn and finds a little girl brushing her doll's hair. The doll is named Sarah, and when Margot tells the girl that that was her mother's name, the girl cryptically says that Sarah is "still there." Come night time, Margot hears sounds from her mother's old room in the attic and sees a spirit.

The next morning, they interview Jacob on camera. He tells them about the free-spirited Sarah, who defied their practices by sleeping with a boy from the neighboring village and getting pregnant. Instead of following custom by being forced to give up Margot to an adoptive family, she instead left her at a hospital, and Sarah is now assumed dead. Through drone footage, Margot's team later finds a church which holds a warning to stay away, and Jacob quickly arrives to prevent them from entering. That night, Margot and the team discover a strange ritual in the barn in which a newborn two-headed goat is sacrificed.

Determined to find out the commune's secrets, Margot and Chris break into the church while Dale distracts Samuel. They discover paintings on the floor depicting the demonic figure Asmodeus, as well as a deep pit which Margot descends into before retreating when she hears a strange noise. Margot sneaks into Jacob's room the next day and finds his computer, where she discovers that he and Samuel had known about her being Sarah's daughter and orchestrated her arrival. She becomes upset and Chris suggests that they leave, but a shadow-like ghoulish being attacks Margot that night. The next day, Chris and Dale find a catatonic Margot with her sheets soaked with blood; despite assurance from the local doctor, the two become suspicious.

Chris and Dale hitch a ride into town with the mailman to get a new car battery, and are informed by the mailman that the people at Beiler Farm are not Amish. Using the internet, they find about the demon Asmodeus: According to myth, the Norwegian village of Beskytter suffered a massacre believed to be caused by Asmodeus. They trapped the demon inside the body of a woman, and the demon continues to be passed from mother to daughter in the bloodline. Chris and Dale realize that Margot is next in line and this is why she was brought to the settlement.

When Chris and Dale return from their trip to the store, Margot has disappeared. While Dale leaves to install the battery, Chris enters the church to search for Margot. After encountering and killing Jacob, Chris finds Margot at the bottom of the pit and rescues her, but they are pursued by a skeletal creature as they flee the church. The creature kills Dale and pursues Margot and Chris in the barn, but Margot, realizing that the creature is Sarah possessed by Asmodeus, calls her by her name, which causes the creature to relent. Taking advantage of her mother's weakened state, Margot then pushes Sarah, sending her falling to her death onto a spiked row of farm tools.

With the death of Sarah, Asmodeus wreaks havoc in Beiler Farm, with the residents killing each other and the livestock and the homes burning. Margot and Chris retrieve the car keys from Dale's body and flee the farm. Later, police officers arrive on the scene and are attracted to a child's crying in the barn. Upon investigating, they realize the noises are caused by the demonically-possessed Samuel. Using his demonic possession, Samuel forces the police officers to die by suicide before driving away in a police cruiser.

