A documentary crew travels to the Isan region of Thailand to interview Nim, a medium/shaman who claims to be possessed by the spirit of Ba Yan, a local goddess. She had been chosen to be Ba Yan's host after her sister, Noi, refused to accept the role and converted to Christianity.

Nim attends the funeral of Noi's husband, Wiroj, who died of a heart attack, and reveals that misfortune had befallen the men in his family. Wiroj's father killed himself after he was caught committing insurance fraud. Wiroj's son, Mac, died in a traffic accident. Noi is left with her daughter, Mink, and they live with Manit (Nim and Noi's brother) and his family.

Mink starts behaving strangely and exhibiting multiple personalities, including those of an attention-seeking child, an old man, a drunkard, and a prostitute. She also hears voices in her head, has nightmares, and experiences abdominal pain and vaginal bleeding. She is fired from her job after her boss discovers that she has been having sex with different men at her workplace. Nim initially believes that Ba Yan has selected Mink to be the next host but Noi refuses a ceremony to transfer the spirit from Nim to Mink. Nim learns that Mink had committed incest with Mac, who had actually hanged himself, and thinks that Mac's ghost is haunting Mink. After Mink attempts suicide, Noi thinks Ba Yan is punishing Mink for refusing to be her host so she arranges for a shaman to conduct the transference ceremony without telling Nim. The ceremony fails and a possessed Mink attacks her mother before running away. Meanwhile, on the way to the shrine, Nim sees that Ba Yan's statue has been decapitated.

A month later, Mink is found in a delirious state in the ruins of her grandfather's factory. Nim brings Mink to see a more powerful shaman, Santi, who says Mink has been possessed by numerous evil spirits. Mink's ancestors had been cursed for committing wicked deeds, hence the misfortunes that befell her family. The failed transference ceremony worsened Mink's condition by making her more vulnerable to possession by any spirit. Nim, along with Santi and his students, prepares for an elaborate ritual to exorcise Mink. In the days leading to the ritual, Mink creates havoc at home by briefly abducting Manit's son, boiling her family's dog alive, and eating it, among other things, while Nim dies in her sleep the day before the ritual.

During the ritual, Noi volunteers her body as a vessel to attract all the evil spirits haunting Mink, so that Santi can trap them in a container and bury it deep in the ground. Meanwhile, the possessed Mink has been locked in her room and the door is sealed with paper charms; Manit's wife and others keep watch to ensure she does not come out until the ritual is complete. Halfway into the ritual, Manit's wife hears her son's crying coming from Mink's room and thinks that Mink has kidnapped her son again. She enters the room, only to be stabbed to death by Mink. All hell breaks loose when the evil spirits possess everyone involved in the ritual, making them fight and kill themselves or each other.

In the meantime, Mink kills everyone at home and goes to the factory, where she meets her mother and a few survivors. Noi is possessed by Ba Yan's spirit for a moment when she chants a prayer while touching her daughter's head, attempting to exorcise her. However, she is distracted when Mink apparently returns to normal and calls her "Mother". Mink uses the chance to burn her mother alive, while the survivors are eventually overwhelmed by the possessed.

A mid-credits scene shows Nim undergoing a crisis of faith one day before her death. She wonders if she has really been possessed by Ba Yan before breaking down in tears.

