In the fictional town of Osborne, Nebraska, high school football player Jackson Pace awakens from a nap to find his house covered in photographs taken on the night he beat up a gay classmate, Caleb, as part of a haze. Jackson is then stabbed to death by someone wearing a mask resembling his face, and the killer then exposes the film of Caleb's assault to the entire school.

The next day at school, friends Makani, Alex, Zach, Darby, and Rodrigo let Caleb sit with them at lunch after he is shunned by the rest of the school. The school's student council president, Katie, announces that there will be a memorial at a church. At the church, while Katie is setting up, someone begins playing a racist and homophobic podcast that she recorded. She is confronted by the killer, who is wearing a mask of her face, and stabbed in the confessional while attempting to call 911. The next night, Zach hosts a party while his family is out of town where everyone must share their secrets. The partygoers get high, while Rodrigo takes fentanyl, which is his real secret. Rodrigo finds a trail of pills leading to his bottle before everyone gets text messages about his addiction. As the lights go out, prompting everyone to run away, Rodrigo is pursued by the killer wearing a mask of his face, who ultimately forces him to choke on his fentanyl pills before fatally slashing his throat.

The next day, most of the school believes that Ollie, Makani's ex-boyfriend, is the murderer. Ollie takes Makani out for a drive where they share a peaceful moment together, until Makani finds a taser gun in Ollie's car and realizes that Ollie ordered a background search on her, prompting her to call an Uber back home. That night at her house, she awakens to find her front door open, her phone gone, and her living room plastered with pictures of a burn victim. The killer, now wearing a mask of Makani's face, breaks the window and tries to kill her, but her friends arrive and save her, though the killer escapes. At the hospital, Makani tells her friends her real secret: during a hazing by her varsity teammates, she and the other haze victims were tortured and forced to get drunk. In a drunken state, Makani pushed one of her friends into a bonfire, badly burning her. She says that she is now sure Ollie is the killer, and the police place him under arrest.

The next day, Zach's rich father, Skipper, holds a corn maze next to the school. Darby messages Makani that Ollie has been released by his brother just as his car pulls up to the school parking lot. Makani runs inside to avoid him, and she bumps into Caleb, who is then stabbed by the killer for trying to hide his homosexuality. The killer gives Makani the knife before Ollie and Makani's friends arrive and save Caleb. Makani then realizes that the killer is headed for the corn maze.

At the corn maze, the killer sets fire to the maze with the football team inside, so Makani and her friends drive into the flames to help the football players escape. Darby and Alex help the players find their way out, while Ollie and Makani try to find Zach. They ultimately confront the killer, now wearing Skipper's face, who kills Skipper before revealing himself to be Zach. He explains to Makani that he killed everyone because he wanted to expose everyone's secrets in revenge for the bullying he endured for being the rich son of Skipper, whom the town disliked for making billions by selling and buying farms. Zach then reveals he intends to frame Makani for his crimes, but Ollie distracts him, allowing Makani to stab Zach, mortally wounding him. As Zach lies wounded and helpless, Makani rebukes his motives and denounces him for blaming and killing others for what's wrong when Zach himself is the real problem. Having exposed his actual secret of being a murderous psychopath, Makani then ultimately kills him, saying she doesn't need to wear a mask to show Zach who he truly was.

Sometime later, Makani, Ollie, and their friends celebrate graduation with everyone in the group getting into the colleges they wanted to attend. Makani decides to reconnect with her friend from the bonfire.

