{{Long plot|date=November 2022}}
Mario is a game designer from Hyderabad. He develops a game along with his friends Bhadram and Maggie, and although it's a success, they later discover a bug that causes the game to crash at higher levels. Mario calls his friend Kalyan, the programmer, but Kalyan tells them that he is getting married. He invites them to Kurnool district for his wedding, promising to fix the code.

Kalyan's father-in-law Bhooma Reddy is a chieftain who rules the village of Rudravaram. He plans hides his violent ways and weapons until Kalyan is married off to his daughter, Pushkala. Meanwhile, Nandini Reddy, the daughter of Bhooma's close aid Bukka Reddy, also arrives at the wedding. As Mario and his friends drive to Rudravaram, they accidentally hit a man on the road who bites Bhadram. An old man immediately arrives and takes him away. Further on their trip, the trio run into Veera Reddy, Bhooma's arch-rival, who tries to kill them. They escape. Mario finds out Veera Reddy plans to kill Kalyan after his marriage. Despite multiple warnings, Kalyan doesn't believe Mario.

Meanwhile, Bhadram's condition begins to worsen as he transforms into a zombie. He bites a household maid, who in turn bites a laborer, spreading the zombie virus even further. Bhooma Reddy and his men leave to investigate the virus. Mario's efforts to stop Kalyan's marriage are all foiled by Nandini, and in the end, he witnesses Veera Reddy's men kidnapping Kalyan on his wedding night. He finds Nandini and the two begin to quarrel until they both witness a zombie attack on one of Bhooma's workers. They lock themselves in the house along with Maggie and Kasi Reddy, and manage to escape by tricking the zombies.

The group try to rescue Kalyan from Veera Reddy's house, where it is revealed that Nandini is actually Sailaja Reddy, Veera Reddy's daughter, who was sent as a spy. The group manage to escape with Kalyan, and Veera Reddy and Sailaja follow. When Veera Reddy is attacked and swarmed by a crowd of zombies, a grief-filled Sailaja joins forces with Mario. In the fight that follows, Kasi is trapped up palm tree, and Maggie is bitten because she was unable to shoot her friend Bhadram. A heartbroken Mario is forced to flee.

Mario remembers Bhadram getting bit on the road and decides to confront the old man from earlier. They find the original zombie, trapped in a glass cage along with a hidden lab. The old man reveals that he was once a world-famous virologist but the government banned him, citing his practices as unethical and inhumane. Desperate to recover his former reputation, he began developing a vaccine for Covid-19 and tested it directly on humans, leading to the creation of the zombie virus. The old man tries to show Mario the location of the cure in his camera, but the caged zombie breaks free, killing the old man. The others are rescued by Bhooma Reddy. Mario manages to see that the cure is near a symbol in a temple

On their way to the temple, Sailaja realizes she was scratched by the original zombie, but Mario brings her inside despite her protests. While searching for the symbol, they come upon Veera Reddy, who's alive. Although Bhooma Reddy and Veera Reddy are initially furious, they eventually decide to forget their enmity and join hands to hold off the zombie while the others continue looking for the symbol.

When Sailaja begins to turn into a zombie, Mario accidentally discovers that the cure is in the water falling from the Shiva Lingam, which is where the Symbol is. Mario blows a conch to make the zombies chase him, and jumps into a pond fed by the same water. As the zombies follow him into the water, they are cured. Mario is hailed as a hero for stopping the virus as both the families, a cured Maggie and Bhadram joyfully re-unite.

