In Piqua, Ohio, best friends George Beard and Harold Hutchins are fourth-graders who create comic books about a superhero named "Captain Underpants". They attend Jerome Horwitz Elementary School, where their excessive pranks put them at odds with their cruel principal, Mr. Krupp. One day, they are caught on camera tampering with their classmate Melvin Sneedly's invention, the Turbo Toilet 2000. Mr. Krupp prepares to put George and Harold in separate classes in hopes of ending their friendship.

George hypnotizes Mr. Krupp using a "3-D Hypno-Ring" from a cereal box and commands him to become Captain Underpants, leading him to cause trouble around town. After taking him to their treehouse, the boys discover that they can turn Captain Underpants back into Mr. Krupp by splashing water on him and back into Captain Underpants by snapping their fingers. To keep Mr. Krupp from separating them, they convince Captain Underpants that Mr. Krupp is his "secret identity". His change in personality attracts the affections of the school's shy lunch lady, Edith.

Meanwhile, evil scientist Professor Pee-Pee Diarrheastein Poopypants, Esq. is hired as the school's new science teacher, though George and Harold are suspicious of his short-tempered and violent behavior. It is revealed that Poopypants, who invented a Nobel Prize-winning "sizerator" capable of shrinking and enlarging things, is sick of never being taken seriously due to his name, and seeks to eliminate all laughter. With Captain Underpants as principal, the school becomes a livelier place, but a rainstorm turns Captain Underpants back into Mr. Krupp, who officially places George and Harold in separate classes.

Poopypants recruits Melvin to his plan and attacks the school with a giant version of Melvin's Turbo Toilet 2000 fueled by Edith's toxic leftovers. He also uses Melvin's brain to power a ray that turns the students into dull, humorless zombies. Captain Underpants tries to stop them but, having no superpowers, is thrown into the toxic waste. George and Harold are captured, but the power of a joke that made them friends in kindergarten overloads the Turbo Toilet 2000, returning the kids to normal and causing Melvin to become trapped in a giant toilet paper. The toxic leftovers give Captain Underpants real superpowers and, with George and Harold's help, he defeats and shrinks Poopypants, who escapes on a bee.

Unable to control Captain Underpants forever, George and Harold destroy the Hypno-Ring to permanently change him back into Mr. Krupp, but swear to remain friends. However, after realizing that Mr. Krupp would be nicer if he had friends, they set him and Edith up on a date, causing Krupp to have a change of heart and return the comics he confiscated from George and Harold. However, the toxic waste from the Turbo Toilet 2000 transforms the toilets at a scrap yard into an army of Talking Toilets, which attack the restaurant where Mr. Krupp and Edith are dining. After unwittingly snapping his fingers, Mr. Krupp is once again transformed into Captain Underpants, to Edith's surprise and admiration, and he flies away with George and Harold to face their next adventure.

In a mid-credits scene, Miss Anthrope accidentally disconnects the call she has been on hold for during the entire scenario and erupts in anger.

