In the late 1980s, Tim Templeton, a creative 7-year-old, is taken aback when his new baby brother, Boss Baby, arrives. Baby wears a suit and tie and acts like a normal baby around adults, but acts like an adult when adults are absent.  One day, Baby holds a staff meeting with other infants, under the guise of a neighborhood play date. Tim attempts to record them on a tape before Baby and his cronies spot and chase him, resulting in it being destroyed. Tim is grounded until he learns to get along with Baby.

Later, Baby reveals the truth as to why he is in his house and where he comes from. He and Tim suck a special pacifier that allows them to see Baby Corp, where babies come from. Most babies go to families, but those unresponsive to tickling are sent to management, where they are given a special baby formula that allows them to think and behave as adults while remaining young forever. Baby explains he is on a special mission to investigate the declining love for babies due to puppies, and came to the Templeton's as Tim's parents work for Puppy Co. Once his mission is done, he will leave. However, the boys hear Baby's boss threatening to fire him if he fails, which would mean Baby would have to stay and grow up with the Templeton family. Tim and Baby team up to prevent this.

On Take Your Kid to Work Day, the parents take Tim and Baby with them to Puppy Co. While investigating, they are caught by Francis Francis, who used to be the CEO of Baby Corp but got fired due to aging from lactose intolerance. He takes Baby's formula to create a "Forever Puppy" incapable of aging, which will take all love from babies and give him his revenge on BabyCorp.

Francis takes Tim's parents to a Las Vegas conference and leaves his brother Eugene to pose as a female nanny to watch the children. The boys attack Eugene with fake vomit and escape him with the help of neighborhood toddlers. They reach Las Vegas, where they find Francis ready to launch a rocket of Forever Puppies out into the world. Tim's parents are trapped below the rocket to be burned. Tim and Baby fight Francis on a stainless steel permit walkway, making him fall into a vat of formula that turns him back into a baby, and Eugene takes him home. Tim and Baby save Tim's parents and eject the Forever Puppies from the rocket before it launches.

Baby goes back to Baby Corp and becomes CEO. BabyCorp workers erase evidence of Baby and erase the parents' memories of him. One of these workers asks Tim if he would like to forget about Baby, but he declines. Tim soon realizes he misses Baby deeply, and invites him back, saying that he can have all of Tim's parents love. Baby returns as a regular baby named Theodore "Ted" Templeton, realizing love is something that grows, instead of being divided.

Years later, in the present day, an adult Tim and Ted tell the story to Tim's eldest daughter, who is apprehensive about the arrival of her newborn baby sister. After the adults leave, the newborn girl reveals she is a Boss Baby, too, surprising the elder daughter.

