A 22-year-old woman named Martha has been living as a member of a cult in the Catskill Mountains for two years. The leader of the cult, Patrick, granted her the name Marcy May upon her initiation. Eventually, she decides to flee and escapes into the woods, arriving at a nearby town. In a diner restaurant, she is confronted by Watts, a cult member, who attempts to persuade her to return, but when she refuses, he lets her leave. Martha calls her sister Lucy, who picks her up and takes her to the vacation lake house in Connecticut that she shares with her husband, a successful and wealthy architect named Ted.

While staying with Lucy and Ted at the lake house, Martha begins exhibiting strange behavior by skinny dipping in a public lake, sleeping all the time, not eating, and arguing with her sister and brother-in-law about how to live, specifically arguing over the need for career and possessions. Lucy reveals she abandoned Martha and is now attempting to get her back into her life, while she and Ted are also trying to have their own child. One night, Martha climbs into bed with Ted and Lucy while they are having sex, angering Ted. Martha then attempts to phone the cult, but hangs up when one of the female members answers using the code name "Marlene Lewis".

In flashbacks, Martha recalls a series of disturbing events that led to her escape the cult: Martha became a member through her friend, Zoe. She initially seems receptive but somewhat wary of Patrick and Katie. She is later convinced by Zoe and Patrick to let her guard down, only to end up being drugged by Katie and brutally raped by Patrick in an initiation cleansing ritual, (which she later facilitates for another incoming female member, Sarah). She was then gaslit by cult matriarch Katie and was forced to accept that her being brutally raped by Patrick was good, as well as being convinced by Zoe that her cleansing is a good thing. Patrick would later urge her to kill a cat, which she refused to do, he then berates her and for failing to follow the cults ideals & threatens to ‘cleanse’ her in-front of other cult members to establish his dominance. She subsequently began participating in burglaries with the other cultists, including one where they murdered a homeowner who walked in on them. After witnessing the murder, Martha had a mental breakdown before Patrick forcefully subdues and berates her for failing to follow the cult's ideals, before gaslighting and fondling her, telling Martha that she is his favorite person. It is implied Martha had killed Patrick before fleeing the cult, which is why she fears Katie and the cult are after her for revenge.

Lucy and Ted host a party at their home, inviting numerous friends from the city. Martha is visibly nervous during the gathering and has a psychotic episode when she misidentifies the bartender as a cult member, and needs to be sedated. Ted attempts to convince Lucy to send Martha to a psychiatric hospital, an idea Lucy rejects.

Later that night, Martha has a nightmare, concerning her being brutally raped again by Patrick, and suffers a panic attack. Ted tries to calm her down, but Martha, thinking he is Patrick, kicks him down the staircase. Lucy threatens to send Martha to a psychiatric hospital, to which Martha angrily responds that Lucy will be a terrible mother. The next day, Lucy and Martha somewhat reconcile, and Martha goes swimming. She sees a man watching her across the shore and leaves the water. When Martha departs the house with Lucy and Ted, she looks behind from the backseat of the car as another driver follows them.

