Criminal defense attorney Mickey Haller works in LA County, California, from the back of his black Lincoln Town Car, chauffeured by Earl Briggs. He typically works for low-end criminals including Eddie Vogel, leader of a biker gang. His ex-wife, Maggie McPherson, with whom he shares a daughter, is a district attorney who disapproves of his choice of clientele.

Haller is unexpectedly hired to represent Louis Roulet, a wealthy Beverly Hills playboy and the son of real estate mogul Mary Windsor. Roulet is accused of brutally beating prostitute Regina Campo, and surprisingly, chose Haller specifically for the case. Haller and his investigator, Frank Levin, analyze photos and evidence and find similarities to a prior case where a prostitute was killed. Haller represented the defendant, Jesus Martinez, and due to the overwhelming evidence and in spite of Martinez's earnest proclamations of innocence, convinced him to plead guilty to avoid the death penalty.

Haller visits Martinez, who becomes agitated when he shows him Roulet's photo. Haller realizes that Roulet is likely the killer and that he chose Haller as counsel in order to bind Haller by attorney–client confidentiality rules and keep him from talking about either case. His own hands tied, Haller tells Levin to investigate Roulet.

Roulet breaks into Haller's house and nonchalantly admits to committing the murder for which Martinez was convicted. He also makes veiled threats towards Haller's daughter. Later, Levin is found shot dead after leaving him a voicemail message claiming he found Martinez's "ticket out of jail." Haller discovers the bullet that killed Levin matches his late father's antique .22 Colt Woodsman, which is missing from its box.

Legally obliged to defend his client, Haller ruthlessly cross-examines Campo and discredits her. He also secretly sets up a known prison informant, Dwayne Jeffrey "DJ" Corliss, to testify against Roulet with information on the previous murder. Haller is able to discredit DJ's testimony, getting Roulet's current charges dismissed. However, when Roulet is set free, the police arrest him immediately for the previous murder based on DJ's description.

Haller acquires a pistol from Earl for protection. Roulet's family gets him released due to lack of evidence and he goes to Maggie's home where he is confronted by Haller. Haller vows that he will not stop until Martinez is freed and Roulet is convicted for his crime; Roulet mockingly tells him he cannot guard his family all the time. The biker gang suddenly arrives and brutally beats Roulet.

Maggie discovers Levin had found a parking ticket issued to Roulet near the murder victim's house, strong evidence against him. Upon arriving home, Haller discovers Roulet's mother, Mary Windsor, waiting inside. She shoots him with the Colt Woodsman, confessing that she murdered Levin. When Mary moves to shoot Haller again, he draws the pistol obtained from Earl and fatally shoots her.

Martinez is released and the DA is seeking the death penalty for Roulet. As Haller and Earl drive off, he is pulled over by Vogel and the biker gang, whose case he takes pro bono in gratitude for their help.

