The Miller family lives in a mansion in Shreveport, Louisiana. The house is later invaded by robbers masquerading as police.

They consist of leader Elias, his girlfriend Petal, his younger brother Jonah and a large man named Ty.

Meanwhile, the youngest Miller, Avery, is harassed at a party by its host, Jake. Disgusted, she returns home, where she is captured. To the robbers' dismay, the family turns out to be bankrupt; all of their possessions were bought on loaned credit. Enraged, Elias breaks the hand of Kyle, Avery's father, and takes a diamond necklace from Sarah, her mother. However, the necklace is also discovered to be a worthless replica.

During a moment of distraction, Kyle and Avery attempt an escape and set off the house's security system. They are attacked by Ty, whom Kyle knocks out with a syringe from the robbers.

Thinking that Ty is dead, Elias shoots Kyle in the leg. Elias is actually a drug dealer working for a crime syndicate. One night, he and Petal were carjacked at gunpoint, and $180,000 worth of drugs was stolen from them. Faced with threats of retribution, Elias was forced to commit a heist (under the supervision of henchman Ty) to pay off his debt. Jonah suggested the mansion as a place to rob.

Avery is then forced to answer a call from the security company and convince them to call off the police. Nonetheless, a security guard shows up and recognizes Jonah as a former employee, prompting the latter to kill him.

The only thing of any worth on Kyle turns out to be his life insurance. Desperate, Elias prepares to kill Kyle. Avery announces that she can help steal a lot of money from Jake if her father's life is spared. Elias reluctantly agrees and sends Petal to supervise Avery. Driving to the party, Avery plans to seduce Jake and steal his money but is horrified after learning Petal's plan to massacre everyone there and take the cash, including Avery. Accelerating the car, Avery unbuckles Petal's seat belt and crashes into a telephone pole. Then, she handcuffs an incapacitated Petal to the car.

At the mansion, Jonah turns out to be mentally ill and off his medications. He is enamored with Sarah and believes they had an affair when he was a technician installing the house's security system. Ty reawakens from his stupor and attacks Sarah. Enraged, Jonah fights Ty. To defend his brother, Elias kills Ty. In his dying breath, Ty reveals that the men who stole Elias' drug shipment were actually members of the syndicate. The operation was done in order to blackmail him into stealing more money for them. Jonah had masterminded the entire plan to have an excuse to return to the mansion and profess his love to Sarah. Shocked, Elias refuses to believe Ty.

Through the chaos, Sarah and a wounded Kyle escape to a tool shed behind the house. In the ensuing fight with the thieves, a partition is broken, revealing hidden money; Kyle had sold Sarah's real diamond necklace and was saving the money as a nest egg for his family when he noticed his capital declining. Avery then appears, pointing a gun at the thieves. To defend himself, Elias aims his gun at Sarah. For this, he is killed by Jonah. Trying to sacrifice himself, Kyle tells his family to run while setting the money on fire after noticing a leaking gas canister that was turned over earlier in the tussle. He also shoots Jonah's foot with a nail gun, trapping him in the shed. Sarah tries to help Kyle but is grabbed in a last-ditch effort by Jonah, who believes it is destiny to die with her in the fire. Kyle then shoots Jonah, who dies. Sarah carries Kyle away to safety just as the shed collapses.

Kyle wants Sarah to let him die so that she and Avery can survive on his life insurance fund, but she refuses, as she loves him regardless of how much money he has. After calling the police, Avery runs back to her parents, and the three embrace.

