Ella, the kindhearted daughter of a wealthy merchant, lives happily with her parents, until her mother falls ill and dies. On her deathbed, she asks her daughter to always have courage and be kind. Years later, Ella's father marries the widowed Lady Tremaine, who has two daughters of her own, Drisella and Anastasia. When Ella's father leaves on business, Lady Tremaine reveals her cruel and jealous nature, forcing Ella to give up her bedroom to the stepsisters and move into the attic. While away, Ella's father unexpectedly dies. Lady Tremaine dismisses the household staff to save money, forcing all the chores upon her stepdaughter. Seeing her face covered in cinders after sleeping by the fireplace, Ella's stepfamily mockingly dubs her "Cinderella".

Distraught by her stepfamily's mistreatment of her, Ella rides off into the woods. There, she meets Kit, the crown prince, who introduces himself as a palace apprentice. They take a liking to each other, but part without him learning her name. Back at the palace, Kit learns that his terminally ill father plans to throw a royal ball so Kit may choose a princess to marry. Kit persuades the king to invite all the eligible maidens in the land, secretly hoping Ella will come.

Ella, also wanting to see Kit again, refashions her mother's old party dress and attempts to join her stepfamily at the ball. However, they rip her dress and leave her behind. Running into the garden in tears, Ella meets an old beggar woman, who reveals herself to be her fairy godmother. She magically transforms a pumpkin into a carriage, mice into horses, lizards into footmen, and a goose into the coachman. She then turns Ella's ripped dress into an exquisite ball gown, and gifts her a pair of glass slippers. As Ella departs, the Fairy Godmother warns her the magic will end at the last stroke of midnight, and casts a final spell to prevent Ella's stepfamily from recognizing her.

At the ball, Kit is delighted to see Ella, and gives her the first dance. The Grand Duke, who promised Kit to Princess Chelina of Zaragoza for political reasons, expresses annoyance and is overheard by Lady Tremaine. Although surprised to learn Kit is the prince, Ella bonds with him. However, before she can tell him her name, the clock chimes midnight and she flees the palace, losing one of her glass slippers. The Grand Duke pursues her, but Ella manages to hide right before the magic dissipates. Upon returning home, she hides the remaining glass slipper under the floorboards.

On his deathbed, the king gives Kit his blessing to marry Ella. As the new king, Kit issues a proclamation professing his love for the "mystery princess" and requests she present herself. Ella hurries to retrieve the slipper to prove her identity, but Lady Tremaine finds it first. She refuses to allow Ella to marry Kit unless Ella makes her the head of the royal household. Ella refuses, so Lady Tremaine locks her in the attic and breaks the slipper, bringing its remains to the Grand Duke and revealing the truth to him. He agrees to make Lady Tremaine a countess and secure advantageous marriages for her daughters if she keeps Ella hidden forever.

Unaware of these developments, Kit orders the Grand Duke and the Captain of the Guard to find the "mystery princess" by trying the intact slipper on every woman in the kingdom. At Tremaine's house, the shoe fits neither stepsister, and the company prepares to depart, until they hear Ella singing in the attic. Kit, who has secretly accompanied the group, commands the Captain to investigate, forcing Lady Tremaine to release Ella. Ella successfully tries on the slipper and, as she leaves with Kit, forgives her stepmother. Soon after, Lady Tremaine, her daughters, and the Grand Duke leave the kingdom permanently, while Ella and Kit marry and become its most beloved monarchs, ruling with the same courage and kindness that Ella had promised her mother years ago.

