Filmmaker Adam Green begins a documentary about artwork that features monsters.  Green is surprised when William Dekker, a retired detective, contacts him and claims to have proof of the existence of monsters.  Green's wife reacts skeptically, but he reworks his documentary to focus on Dekker and his efforts to expose the monsters' underground home, which he calls "The Marrow". Green interviews Dekker at his house, who claims that he has seen many monsters and identified some of them through sketches. Dekker mentions his son once but diverts from the topic when Green inquires. The shooting crew of Green and his cameraman wait at the Marrow's entrance; a dug-up hole in the cemetery in the woods. On the first night they do not see anything although Dekker keeps claiming that he could see one of the monsters.

Next time they do capture a footage of a monster for a brief time interval, but there is a disbelief as to whether it is a hoax setup by Dekker. Then they make an arrangement of five cameras and light to capture footage in the absence of their cameraman. One of the cameras, Camera-2, goes missing. Other cameras capture monsters, and later reveals that Dekker visits often and communicates, or feeds, one of the monsters at the Marrow. However the footage is not very clear. Meanwhile, Green finds out that Dekker had approached other directors with his story and the Boston police department do not recognize him. This arouses suspicion and Green tries to gather more footage to confirm hoax (or reality) at the Marrow one night with his cameraman. Dekker arrives there too, and soon they are violently attacked by monsters. They escape in their car. Green and his cameraman leave the house. Next morning they find that Dekker has abandoned the house and they couldn't trace him. However, there is a room with broken chains, implying a monster had been trapped there. Dekker probably believes that one of the monsters is his son and used to trap him there. The movie ends with footage from camera-2 showing a monster that keeps Dekker trapped in a cage, and attacks Green at his home.

