Adaline Bowman purchases fake IDs and then opens a box of film reels highlighting historical events. A voiceover tells Adaline's life. She was the first baby born on New Year's Day of 1908 in San Francisco. She married in 1929, had a daughter in 1932, and was widowed when her husband was killed in 1937 during the construction of the Golden Gate Bridge. Ten months later, while driving to her parents' cottage, Adaline crashed into a ravine and died in the freezing lake in Sonoma County, but a lightning strike revived her. From then on, Adaline never aged beyond 29 years old.

In 1954, after a traffic violation, during which a police officer doubts her age as 45 years old, two FBI agents attempt to abduct her for study. She escapes and spends the rest of her life on the run. She periodically changes her identification while her daughter Flemming ages normally.

On New Year's Eve 2014, as "Jennifer", she meets Ellis Jones at a party. Knowing she can never fall in love, she initially declines to see him again but accepts the next day.

In a flashback, Adaline pulls up in a cab to where a man is waiting, holding an engagement ring. She tells the cab driver to keep going.

Ellis asks Adaline to his parents' 40th anniversary party. His father, William, recognizes her instantly and calls her Adaline, though she is using another name. She says Adaline was her mother who has since passed away. A flashback reveals William was the man with the engagement ring.

William is shaken when he notices a scar on Adaline's hand, revealed in a flashback to be from a cut she sustained while she and William were hiking decades before. He confronts her, and she confirms who she is and says she does not know what changed her. William begs her to stay for Ellis' sake, but she writes Ellis a note and leaves. Finding the letter, Ellis confronts his father, who refuses to explain.

Driving home, Adaline recalls all the times she has run. She calls her daughter to say she is going to stop running. A flatbed truck plows into her car, pushing it into a ravine. Adaline is ejected from the car and dies from hypothermia. An ambulance crew revives her with a defibrillator and she wakes up in the hospital with Ellis at her bedside. They profess their love, and Adaline reveals her 107 years of life and fear of being discovered.

A year later, Ellis and Adaline are leaving for a New Year's Eve party when, in the hallway mirror, she notices a grey hair. When Ellis asks if she is okay, she replies she is perfect.

