Jesus walks through the desert, while stopping to pray and asking where God is. He encounters an old woman to whom he gives water, before noticing she has a snake tail, and she laughs at him.

Throughout the film, Satan appears to Jesus, adopting his appearance. He offers Jesus water, but Jesus doesn't reply. Eventually, Jesus finds a boy taking care of his mother in a tent. The boy is building a home with his father for him to live, although he wishes to go to Jerusalem. The mother is dying, since she cannot eat. The father gives food to Jesus, but he refuses, saying he is fasting. Jesus leaves, but soon returns and works with them to build the house, while he stays at his tent. Satan poses as the mother, wanting Jesus to believe that the boy is product of an infidelity.

Satan reveals to Jesus that he can see the future, and that the world is one more iteration of history, which God always tries again while changing some details. Satan reveals that whenever Jesus intervenes, he cannot predict the outcome. Jesus asks Satan what it is like to be in God's presence, and Satan explains an abstract feeling, while saying God has no face. Later, Satan adopts the figure of the naked mother, and tells Jesus that he is weak.

The boy develops a taste in inventing riddles, which Jesus enjoys. His father discovers a red rock (possibly ruby) in a cliff and plans to lower the boy with ropes while he and Jesus hold him, so he can get it. The boy refuses, and the father attacks him. Jesus offers himself to be the one to descend, but the father does it, while Jesus and the boy hold him. The father falls and demands the rope to be cut and falls into a chasm. Jesus and the boy go to look for him, but he dies from his injuries.

Jesus returns with the body so the mother can see her husband one last time. Jesus and the boy later find the body being burned. The boy gets some of his father's ashes, and his mother tells him to leave her. The boy obeys, and Jesus demands that Satan show him the boy's destiny. Jesus watches it in a bowl of water, and smiles. He attempts to heal the mother, but she refuses. Jesus leaves to Jerusalem. On the way, Satan tells him that he is tired of walking, and that in his final moments he will offer Jesus help. He tells Jesus to say hello to God when he sees Him.

The film jumps to Jesus' crucifixion. Dying, Jesus sees a hummingbird in front of him. The apostles then bury Jesus' body and stay outside of his tomb.

In the present day, two tourists take pictures in the same desert Jesus walked in.

