Pee-wee Herman is a resident of the small town of Fairville and works as a fry cook at Dan's Diner, where he is well liked by the locals and revered for his diner cooking.  However, his world is suddenly turned upside down when his band breaks up.  Soon afterwards, he meets and befriends actor Joe Manganiello, who convinces Pee-wee to leave Fairville for the first time in his life to travel to New York City to attend Joe's birthday party.

Shortly after leaving Fairville, Pee-wee encounters three women being chased and, assuming they are innocent women in peril, offers them an escape in his Fiat 600. It turns out that the three women, Pepper, Freckles, and Bella (who coincidentally goes by the nickname "Pee-Wee"), are outlaws who have just robbed a bank. The women steal his Fiat. Pee-wee then gets a car ride from a travelling salesman named Gordon, who visits a creepy snake farm with Pee-wee in tow, and gives him a disguise kit.

Pee-wee tries to hitch-hike, but nobody stops, so he seeks refuge at a farmhouse owned by Farmer Brown, who lets Pee-wee spend the night. Farmer Brown introduces Pee-wee to his nine daughters, all of whom have a romantic interest in Pee-wee and spend the entire evening flirting with him. The next morning, having heard his daughters talk endlessly about Pee-wee, Farmer Brown insists that Pee-wee marry one. During the wedding ceremony, Pee-wee uses the disguise kit to flee the church, leaving his bride standing at the altar. The runaway groom then gets a ride in an RV driven by four hairdressers who are en route to a hairdressing contest. Pee-wee realizes he is still far from New York, but the hair stylists implore him not to give up.

Pee-wee then meets Penny King, an aviator with a flying car, who offers to fly him to New York. The flying car crashes in the wilderness where Pee-wee meets Grizzly Bear Daniels who promises to show Pee-wee the way out of the woods, but instead, takes him to his cave.

Pee-wee flees Grizzly's cave. After wandering lost for a time, he comes upon an Amish community, where he entertains the locals by slowly letting the air out of a balloon, causing it to squeak loudly and shrilly.

Pee-wee discovers that the bank robbers are hiding among the Amish. That night when the women attempt to steal a horse and buggy, Pee-wee persuades them to leave some of their money behind for the Amish citizens to purchase a replacement.

Pee-wee and the women arrive in New York where the three women are arrested for the robbery. After trying pizza for the first time in his life, Pee-wee tries to make it to Joe's birthday party but falls down a well in Central Park just before the birthday party starts. Joe thought that Pee-wee decided not to come to his party and cannot enjoy himself. In a state of melancholy, Joe turns on the TV to the local news. There is a story about a rescue attempt in progress to get "a boy" out of the well. Joe sneaks out of his apartment and rushes to the well and assists in the rescue. During the rescue, the entire town of Fairville, Pepper, Freckles, and Bella (while in their prison cell), travelling salesman Gordon, the staff of the snake farm, the hairdressers, Penny King, and Grizzly Bear Daniels (who have found each other and are relaxing in Grizzly's hot tub) are watching the news broadcast (except for Farmer Brown and his daughters and the Amish people), that went national when Joe got involved. When Pee-wee asks Joe, "What about the party?", Joe responds, "Pee-wee, we ''are'' the party", and then shows Pee-wee a miniature version of Fairville he created, reflecting one of Pee-wee's models he saw earlier.

Pee-wee returns to his job at Dan's Diner, where he shows the Fairville residents some of the items he acquired during his trip. Joe appears in Fairville to give Pee-wee a ride on his motorcycle.

