thumb|upright|Rodrigues visualizes the face of Christ in the [[Veil of Veronica form painted by El Greco.]]
thumb|upright|A [[fumi-e bearing an image of Christ, similar to the one portrayed in the film.]]

Veteran Portuguese Jesuit priest Cristóvão Ferreira is forced to watch as Japanese converts to Christianity are tortured to death for refusing to renounce their faith.

A few years later, at St. Paul's College in Macau, an Italian Jesuit priest, Alessandro Valignano, receives news that Ferreira renounced his faith in Japan. In disbelief, Ferreira's Portuguese pupils, the young Jesuit priests Sebastião Rodrigues and Francisco Garupe, set off to find him, guided by Kichijirō, a fisherman stranded in Macau. Kichijirō is seeking redemption, as he renounced his faith to save himself while the rest of his family was put to death.

Arriving in the Japanese village of Tomogi, the priests find local Christian populations driven underground in fear of "the Inquisitor." The villagers hide the two priests, but they are horrified when officials of the shogunate arrive to ferret out hidden Christians and force them to step on a fumi-e, a carved image of Christ. The villagers who refuse are left to drown on the shore and their bodies cremated so they cannot be properly buried. Garupe leaves for Hirado Island and Rodrigues to Gotō Island, the last place Ferreira was seen.

Rodrigues finds the village destroyed and Kichijirō betrays him to the authorities, who imprison him in Nagasaki. Rodrigues is forced by the Inquisitor, the daimyo Inoue Masashige, to watch as converts are tortured. He is shocked to see an emaciated Garupe among them; as the Inquistor tries to compel Garupe to renounce his faith, the priest refuses and instead swims out to try and save a dying woman. The guards hold him underwater and he drowns. Rodrigues' faith in God is shaken. When Kichijirō is imprisoned alongside him, Rodrigues reluctantly hears his confession.

Rodrigues is taken to meet Ferreira, who has assimilated into Japanese society. Ferreira apostatized while being tortured to save his fellow Christians, and now believes that Christianity has no place in Japan. That night, Rodrigues is brought to watch five Christians being tortured. He learns that they have already apostatized but will continue to suffer until he also abandons his faith. Rodrigues struggles over whether it is self-centered to refuse to recant when doing so will end others' suffering. He hears the voice of Jesus, giving him permission to step on the fumi-e, and he does.

Rodrigues takes a Japanese name and wife and is tasked by the Inquisitor to assist Ferreira in his efforts to prevent Dutch traders from smuggling Christian paraphernalia into Dejima. He hears the voice of Jesus, who assures him that rather than remaining silent as Rodrigues had thought, Jesus also suffered alongside those who were killed.

Despite having apostatized, Rodrigues is forced by shogunate officials to prove that he is not practicing his former religion in secret. Kichijirō is arrested after being caught with a Christian amulet and Rodrigues never sees him again. The former priest lives out the remainder of his life in Japan. After his death, he is given a traditional Japanese funeral. His wife is allowed to place an offering in his hand to ward off evil spirits - she places the tiny crudely made crucifix that was given to him when he first came to Tomogi, indicating that in his heart, Rodrigues remained a Christian all his life.

