{{Long plot|date=November 2023}}
Twenty-seven years after It's initial defeat, Pennywise returns to Derry, Maine, in 2016. It kills a man named Adrian Mellon after he and his boyfriend are brutally assaulted by homophobic teens following a carnival.

Mike Hanlon, the only member of the Losers Club who remained in Derry, calls the other members, Bill Denbrough, Ben Hanscom, Beverly Marsh, Richie Tozier, Eddie Kaspbrak, and Stanley Uris to honor the promise they made 27 years earlier to kill Pennywise if he came back. All of them return to Derry, except for Stanley, who kills himself out of fear of the creature. At a Chinese restaurant, Mike refreshes the Losers' memories before Pennywise itself reveals the news of Stanley's suicide to them. Richie and Eddie decide to leave, until Beverly reveals that she has had psychic visions of their deaths should they fail to fulfil their oath. Meanwhile, It kills a young girl named Victoria at a baseball game after luring her into a trap.

At the library, Mike shows Bill, via a drug-induced vision, that the Native American "Ritual of Chüd" can stop It for good. Mike explains that the ritual requires items from their past to be sacrificed. After this explanation, Bill goes to the storm drain where Georgie was killed and recovers his paper sailboat. Beverly retrieves Ben's love letter from her childhood home, before being attacked by It in the form of a demonic elderly woman named Mrs. Kersh. Richie goes to an abandoned cinema where he collects a game token and encounters Pennywise, who confronts him on his hidden homosexuality. Ben returns to the town's high school, while Eddie recovers an inhaler from a pharmacy and is attacked by the Leper.

Meanwhile, Henry Bowers, who was arrested for killing his father, is freed from a mental hospital by It. Bowers viciously attacks Eddie at the Losers' hotel, before attacking Mike at the library. Henry nearly kills Mike, but Richie impales him before he has the chance. The Losers then rejoin Bill (who just failed to save a young boy named Dean from being eaten by It) at the Neibolt House, and convince him not to face It alone.

With their memories now fully restored, the group descends into a cavern beneath the sewers. Mike provides a rock from the Losers' fight with the Bowers Gang, and they perform the ritual in the remains of the meteor that brought It to Earth. The ritual traps the Deadlights (It's true form) in a sealing jar, but a giant red balloon emerges from the jar and explodes, revealing It as an enormous Pennywise-spider hybrid. The creature pressures Mike into revealing a secret he had hidden from the Losers: It killed the Natives originally performing the ritual because their fears overtook them.

It attacks the Losers and places Bill, Ben, and Beverly in individual traps. They escape once Bill releases his guilt over being indirectly responsible for Georgie's death, and when Beverly realizes Ben was the one who wrote the love letter to her. Mike stands up to the creature, only to almost get eaten, but Richie manages to distract It, getting caught in It's Deadlights in the process. Eddie saves him, but is fatally impaled by one of It's claws. A weakened Eddie then explains how he made It feel small earlier, by choking the Leper nearly to death.

The Losers confront It about how they have overcome their fears, and are no longer scared of the entity, causing It to shrink to a small weakened Pennywise. Mike rips out It's heart, which he and the Losers crush with their bare hands, finally killing It. Richie and the others rush back to Eddie, but find out he has died from his injuries. Richie still believes that he can be saved, but the Losers have to drag him away. They are forced to leave Eddie's body behind while It's cavern implodes, destroying the Neibolt House.

The remaining Losers return to their old swimming area and wash off after their confrontation with It, and join hands to comfort Richie as he mourns for Eddie. It's demise has also caused the scars on their hands to disappear. After the Losers part ways, Ben and Beverly get married, Richie returns to the kissing bridge where he had once carved his and Eddie's initials, Mike decides to move out of Derry and start a new life, and Bill begins writing his new story before receiving a call from Mike as he leaves Derry, learning that Stanley sent them all posthumous letters. The letters reveal that Stanley was too scared to face It, and that his suicide was intended to strengthen his friends against It. His last words in the letters indicate that they will always be Losers.

