Cry Baby wakes up and prepares to attend K–12 Sleepaway School. While on the school bus with her best friend, Angelita, she is bullied by her schoolmates ("Wheels on the Bus"). When the bus loses control and plunges into water, Cry Baby and Angelita reveal supernatural abilities that allow them to lift the bus into the air and land outside of K–12. Cry Baby and Angelita briefly see a ghost before hurrying to class.

During class, a student refuses to stand for the Pledge of Allegiance and is taken out of the classroom. Cruel and popular student Kelly grows jealous after seeing Cry Baby lend an eraser to Kelly’s boyfriend, Brandon, and threatens to attack Cry Baby at recess. At nap time, Angelita recommends that Cry Baby telephone her mother for advice, but she doesn't respond due to being passed out drunk. Cry Baby imagines a conversation between her mother and deceased father. ("Class Fight"). At recess, Kelly sees Cry Baby talking with Brandon, hits her, and cuts her with a knife. Cry Baby's powers are triggered, causing her and Kelly to levitate. Cry Baby strangles Kelly with her braids until Ms. Daphne intervenes, sending them to the principal's office.

Another student tells Cry Baby that the principal is medicating students to control them. Cry Baby poisons the principal’s drink, but he recovers promptly ("The Principal"). Later, Cry Baby arrives late to class and is turned into a marionette puppet ("Show & Tell"). At the end of the show and tell, Cry Baby (as a marionette puppet) gets an open wound on her stomach and is sent to the nurse’s office where Angelita sees her. Angelita returns Cry Baby to her human form before the nurses restrain and force medication upon them ("Nurse's Office"). They are saved by Lilith, an angelic spirit guide, who tells them they must stay in K–12 because they have more to learn through experience, and that they are immortal beings. Later, Cry Baby and Angelita hear music coming from the ballroom, they go check it out and open the doors to see a crowd of dancing ghosts. Cry Baby sneezes and the ghosts are triggered. before the ghosts catch them they close the door quickly and run to their next class

In drama class, Cry Baby is cast as a housewife and requests to be assigned a different role, but is ridiculed by the drama teacher and students ("Drama Club"). During the school play, Cry Baby urges the audience to wake from their brainwashed state, using her abilities to free them. She and Angelita lead the students to the principal's office, where they murder him. After burying the principal, Cry Baby and Angelita play tennis and chat with Celeste, a friend with similar abilities. The tennis ball floats away in a bubble before it lands and is picked up by Ben, a student who has a crush on Cry Baby. 

Placed atop a cake while topless, Cry Baby expresses her disdain for objectification and rape culture as boys steal and devour pieces of the cake against her will ("Strawberry Shortcake"). In a dreamlike sequence, Cry Baby speaks with Lilith again. Later on, while walking up the stairs Angelita gets her period and goes to the bathroom with Cry Baby and Celeste. A nurse walks into the bathroom, and Cry Baby bumps into her to steal a tampon out of her pocket for Angelita. At lunch, Kelly propositions Cry Baby to be a part of her friend group, but Cry Baby declines and befriends a girl named Magnolia instead ("Lunchbox Friends"). The group notices that Fleur, a friend of Kelly’s, also has supernatural abilities. Cry Baby starts a food fight to get Fleur away from Kelly’s group, and she learns that Fleur is bulimic. In the bathroom, Cry Baby offers Fleur compassion and tells her she is worthy of love, thus becoming her friend ("Orange Juice"). After returning to the cafeteria, Cry Baby is sent to detention when Kelly snitches on her to Leo, the principal's son. Cry Baby’s powers weaken but she manipulates Leo into releasing her ("Detention").

Ben leaves an anonymous love letter in Cry Baby’s locker and the girls devise a plan to destroy the school, which Leo detects on security footage. In class, Angelita and her biology teacher begin flirting. After class, he shrinks her and tries to dissect her. Cry Baby sees and uses her powers to return Angelita to her normal size, allowing Angelita to kill him with a knife in revenge. ("Teacher's Pet"). Afterwards, the two share a joint in the topiary garden. 

Cry Baby expresses her desire for a partner who is loyal, loving, and accepting ("High School Sweethearts"). While nervous Ben procrastinates asking Cry Baby to the school dance, Leo takes credit for Ben’s anonymous love letter and asks her to the dance himself. Cry Baby accepts, but only with the demise of K-12 in mind. At the dance, Leo announces his knowledge of the girls’ plan over the loudspeaker and locks the seniors inside, forcing them to dance ("Recess"). Cry Baby disguises herself as a woman named Lorelai seeking an assistant position, seducing and deceiving Leo and locking him inside a closet. She then instructs the students to evacuate the school over the loudspeaker, all of whom flee the dance except Kelly.

Cry Baby tries to escape when Ben approaches her, confessing that he’s the one who wrote the love letter and that he, too, has supernatural powers. Together they blow a spit bubble, encapsulating the school. The two leap to safety as the bubble floats away, with Leo and the school trapped inside. The girls watch below as the school explodes and Cry Baby kisses Ben on the cheek. A door emerges from the ground and Lilith reappears. Cry Baby’s friends rush through the door, and Angelita asks “Are you coming?” to which Cry Baby hesitates.

