American student Dani is left deeply traumatized after her bipolar sister Terri kills their parents and herself. The incident further strains Dani's relationship with her increasingly distant boyfriend, a fellow student named Christian, who, with his friends Mark and Josh, has been invited by their Swedish friend Pelle to attend a midsummer festival at his ancestral commune, the Hårga, in the rural Hälsingland region of Sweden. The festival occurs only once every 90 years; Josh, who is writing his thesis on European midsummer festivities, regards it as a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. Christian had not discussed the trip with Dani, as he intended to break up with her before her family tragedy happened, but he reluctantly invites her along after an argument.

Upon arrival at the commune, they meet Simon and Connie, a British couple who were invited by Pelle's commune-brother Ingemar, who offers the group psychedelic mushrooms, causing Dani to have a bad trip and hallucinate about her dead family. The day after their arrival, the group witnesses an ''ättestupa'' ceremony, where two elders commit suicide by jumping off a cliff onto the rocks below. When one of the elders survives the fall, the commune members mimic his wails of pain before crushing his head with a mallet. Commune elder Siv attempts to calm Connie and Simon by explaining that every member of their community does this at the age of 72, and that it is believed to be a great honor.

Christian also decides to write his thesis on the Hårga commune, irritating Josh by plagiarizing his idea. Disturbed by the ceremonies, Dani attempts to leave, but Pelle convinces her to stay. He explains that he too was orphaned after his parents perished in a fire, and the commune became his new family. Connie and Simon demand to leave and are supposedly driven to a nearby train station individually. During his thesis research, Christian is told that outsiders are sometimes brought into the commune for "mating" purposes to avoid incest. He is encouraged to participate, but refuses. After unwittingly urinating on a sacred tree, Mark is lured away from the group by one of the female commune members and murdered in the woods. That night, Josh sneaks out of bed to take illicit photographs of the commune's sacred texts. He is caught and distracted by a man wearing Mark's skinned face, and is then bludgeoned to death with a mallet and dragged away.

The following day, both Dani and Christian are separately pressured into drinking a hallucinogenic tea. Dani wins a maypole dancing competition and is crowned May Queen. Christian is drugged and participates in a sex ritual designed to impregnate Maja, a young member of the Hårga, while older nude female members watch and mimic Maja's moans. Dani witnesses the ritual and has a panic attack while the commune's women surround her, mimicking her cries of sorrow. After the ritual, a naked Christian attempts to flee. He discovers Josh's severed leg planted in a flowerbed and Simon's corpse on display in a barn, the latter having been made into a blood eagle. An elder then paralyzes Christian with a drug.

For the final ceremony, the commune leaders explain that the commune must offer nine human sacrifices to purge it of evil. The first four victims (Mark, Josh, Simon, and Connie) were outsiders lured to them by Pelle and Ingemar, while the next four victims (the two ''ättestupa'' elders, plus volunteers Ingemar and Ulf) are from the commune. As the May Queen, Dani must choose either Christian or a randomly chosen commune member as the final sacrifice. She chooses Christian, who is stuffed into a disemboweled brown bear's body and placed in a triangular wooden temple alongside the other sacrifices. The commune members to be sacrificed are given drugs and told they will feel no fear or pain, but Christian is not and remains paralyzed. The structure is set alight, and the commune members mimic the screams of those being burned alive. Dani initially sobs in horror and grief, but eventually begins to smile.

