After their boat sinks during a storm, Jennifer Remming washes ashore on a small, tropical island and then finds her friend Brad who dies from his wounds shortly after. While exploring the island, Jenn<ref>Spelled "Jenn" according to the ''L.A. Times'', ''Refinery 29'' and ''Fangoria'' in footnotes</ref> discovers the belongings and graves of a family that once lived there. She later buries Brad's corpse in the sand, but she discovers the grave uncovered and a trail of blood leading to the ocean the following morning.

The next day while retrieving her newly surfaced luggage while swimming, Jenn finds an ominous hole in the ocean's floor. That night, Jenn fails to flag down an airplane using a flare gun and encounters a giant humanoid sea monster. For the next four nights, Jenn manages to hide from the sea monster. As Jenn prepares for the fourth night, the corpse of another mutual friend Zack washes ashore mutilated and bisected. Jenn later uses his body as bait, seeing the sea monster clearly for the first time. For her fifth attempt, Jenn sleeps in a makeshift hammock in the trees to watch the monster arrive. When the monster notices the hammock, he starts to touch it and it slowly drops, Jenn stabs the creature with a sharpened stick and narrowly escapes.

The next day, Jenn is reunited with her boyfriend Lucas Griffin and friend Mia Reed after the two wash ashore in a life raft. Jenn warns Lucas and Mia about the creature, but they dismiss her claims. Jenn later discovers Lucas' pocketknife bloodied. Jenn tries to convince them to get in the lifeboat and escape before dark, but Lucas snaps at her and refuses to go. Jenn makes a desperate attempt to flee without the two, but they chase her and throw her out of the life raft. During the escape attempt, Mia knocks Jenn out with a boat paddle after Jenn kicks her in the head. Later, Jenn regains consciousness to find herself tied up. Mia reveals Jenn's past of fabricated lies while Jenn tries to convince her of the danger. Lucas returns and refuses to release Jenn. After Mia leaves, he hints that he participated in Zack's demise. Before Jenn can ask what happened to their friend, Mia is attacked by the sea monster. Lucas leaves Jenn tied up to fight it himself, but he fails to save Mia who is dragged into the water. Jenn breaks free of her bindings and rescues Lucas.

The next morning, Lucas and Jenn attempt to escape in the life raft. Jenn discovers the inside is covered in blood, presumably belonging to Zack. As the two begin to head west, the sea monster attacks the raft, eventually ripping through the base and grabbing Jenn. As Jenn is being dragged down to the black hole, she remembers Lucas' penknife and stabs the monster. It releases her and swims back up to the raft to drag Lucas to his death.

Now alone, Jenn decides to confront the monster. Before setting up a trap for the monster, she chronicles her experiences with the monster in her journal in hopes of aiding any castaways who might wash up on the island after her if she fails. That night, she lures the monster into a circle of wood and grass which she sets fire to. She battles the monster with a series of sharpened branches and bones from the graves of a family the monster killed. Both severely injured, the monster chases Jenn to the shoreline but collapses from its wounds. Jenn decapitates the corpse and limps away to the raft, carrying the severed head as proof of what happened on the island.

