Bhaskar Sharma and his cousin Janardhan "Jana" visit a small town in Arunachal Pradesh for a road-building project. Two natives, Jomin and Panda, show them around. One night in the forest, Bhaskar is bitten by a wolf on his rear end. Dr. Anika, the local veterinarian, saves him.

The next day, Bhaskar begins to see changes in himself, like heightened senses of smell and hearing, and communicating with animals. Meanwhile, the locals and tribals are opposed to the idea of cutting down trees to build roads. Two people involved in the project were discovered dead. Bitemarks on the bodies indicate that they were killed by an animal. Panda claims the killings are the work of a werewolf (Yapum). 

It is revealed that Bhaskar is the perpetrator of the crimes; he has been transforming into a werewolf every night since being bitten and has no control over it. The duo decides to confine Bhaskar in a remote location so he does not succumb. However, a local cop learns the truth, threatening to divulge Bhaskar's name to the town. The wolf that had bitten Bhaskar appears and kills the cop. The group goes to an elderly doctor for treatment; he informs them that the only way for Bhaskar to be cured is for him to be bitten by the same wolf on a new moon night in the same location.

Bhaskar goes to the forest with Jana and Jomin to be bitten again. The werewolf is revealed to be Dr. Anika. She explains that she was bitten by a wolf a century ago and has been the forest's protector since, murdering anybody who attempted to destroy it. She had bitten Bhaskar intending to kill him but spared him because she sensed his kindness within. She advises him to avoid deforestation.

Anika is shot down and captured by the local police. Bhaskar transforms and rescues her, killing their enemies in the process, but she succumbs to her injuries and falls off a cliff, leaving him heartbroken, but not before Bhaskar becomes the new protector. He decides to construct roads around the borders of the forest, leaving the trees and greens unharmed. Meanwhile, many who were still planning the deforestation project were "mysteriously" killed by animals, and thus their project was canceled.

In a mid-credits scene, Vicky and Bittu come to meet their long-lost friend, Jana, who had previously been possessed by ''Stree'', and has since been staying away from them, cutting off contact to study for the UPSC exam for IAS. They ask for Jana's help in finding ''Stree''. Bhaskar transforms into a werewolf and appears, terrifying them.

