Bee, a working-class young woman from Eastern Europe, travels with her wealthy girlfriend Sophie to a "hurricane party" at a mansion owned by the family of David, Sophie's friend. Other guests include David's aspiring actress girlfriend Emma, the podcaster Alice, her much-older new boyfriend Greg, and the enigmatic Jordan. Max, another guest, left after a fight with David the night before Sophie and Bee arrived.

After drinking, using drugs, and dancing, the group decides to play "Bodies Bodies Bodies", a murder in the dark-style game. Greg goes to bed early due to hostility throughout the game from David, who also leaves soon after another fight with Emma. As the storm worsens, the power goes out and the girls scramble to find a power source. Minutes later, Bee finds David outside with his throat slashed, a blood-stained kukri nearby. Panicked and without reception, the group try to go for help in Sophie's car, but find its battery dead.

The group discovers Greg has a go bag with a knife and a map of the area and become suspicious of him. They fearfully confront Greg, who returns their hostility. After a struggle, Bee bludgeons him to death with a kettle bell.

The group doubt that Greg was the killer and Emma theorizes that Max, who had confessed feelings for her the night before, returned to kill David. Sophie, a sober addict, relapses. Emma kisses her, to Sophie's confusion, before accepting drugs. Alice later finds Emma dead from a head wound at the bottom of the stairs, and believes the group is being killed one by one. Jordan and Alice cast suspicion on Bee, revealing that no one with her name is on record as having graduated from her college; they cast Bee out into the hurricane.

Returning to Sophie's car, Bee finds underwear that matches Jordan's bra in the backseat. She sees Jordan holding David's father's gun through a window, then crawls back inside through a pet door. Bee confronts the group, revealing that she dropped out of college to take care of her mother, who has borderline personality disorder. A vicious verbal fight ensues between the group. Jordan, who was the "killer" in the Bodies Bodies Bodies game, reveals resentment for Sophie due to her drug addiction and using David to regain access to her trust fund, and claims Sophie cheated on Bee with her, which Sophie denies. Sophie expresses why she would not date Jordan, that she avoids her friends because their behavior challenges her sobriety, and reveals that Jordan only "hate-listens" to Alice's podcast. After Alice responds by insulting Jordan's insecurities, Jordan shoots Alice in the leg. A struggle for the gun follows; Alice is fatally shot in the throat. As Sophie and Jordan fight, Bee pushes Jordan over the staircase bannister. With her dying breath, Jordan tells Bee to check Sophie's text messages. Bee hides from Sophie out of distrust.

When morning comes and the storm has blown over, Sophie tearfully confesses to Bee that she relapsed and witnessed Emma tripping and falling down the stairs to her death. However, Bee holds her at gunpoint, demanding to see her texts. Sophie tosses her phone away and they struggle, inadvertently picking up David's phone in the process, which shows that David accidentally slashed his own throat while trying to use the kukri to open a champagne bottle for a TikTok video—revealing there was no real murderer after all. As Bee and Sophie realize the bloodshed was all for nothing, a confused Max returns to the mansion, and the power comes back on. When Max asks what happened, Bee only says that she now has service on her phone.

