Maren Yearly (Russell) is a teenage girl living in Maryland under the care of her father Frank (Holland). Having displayed cannibalistic tendencies ever since she murdered her babysitter at the age of three, Maren evaded the consequences of her following incidents over the years thanks to Frank's cover-ups, with the duo often relocating, even as he grew increasingly anguished over his daughter's apparent lack of remorse. He abandons her shortly after her eighteenth birthday, leaving behind some cash, her birth certificate, and a message on a cassette tape, in which he states his hope that she will someday learn to overcome her urges.

Maren decides to travel to Minnesota, listed as the birthplace of her mother Janelle (Sevigny), who left the family when Maren was still an infant. She is approached at a bus station by an eccentric man named Sully (Rylance), who introduces himself as a fellow "eater" and teaches her that their kind can identify one another via scent. He leads her into a house owned by an elderly woman, who has collapsed and is near death, and they feed on the corpse together the following morning, though Maren is initially reluctant. Sully expresses interest in taking Maren under his wing, but she is unnerved by him and flees the house soon after.

Whilst shoplifting supplies in Indiana, Maren witnesses an intoxicated customer harassing a woman and tries to confront him before a young man named Lee (Chalamet) intervenes, baiting the customer into leaving the store. She later spots Lee outside, covered in the man's blood, and the two admit to having previously recognized each other's scents. Lee steals his victim's truck and, once the pair spends the night at the man's vacated house, offers to help Maren find her mother. They embark on a cross-country road trip, during which they fall in love. After a brief stay in Lee's hometown in Kentucky, Maren notices his unwillingness to discuss certain aspects of his past, such as his father's absence and the reason why Lee avoids being spotted around town. His younger sister Kayla (Cobb), who is unaware of his true nature, chastises him for his sudden departures and unannounced returns.

Maren tracks down the home of her maternal grandmother, Barbara, who, despite having no prior knowledge of her existence, informs her that Janelle was not her biological child, but was taken in by her and her husband as an infant after being found abandoned behind a police station, and that Janelle voluntarily admitted herself into a psychiatric hospital in Fergus Falls several years before. There, Maren reunites with her mother, who she is shocked to find has self-cannibalized her own hands. A nurse hands Maren a letter that Janelle wrote to her in the event that their paths ever crossed again, which concludes with Janelle's belief that Maren would be better off dead than living as a "monster". Janelle proceeds to attack her daughter before being restrained. Disturbed and unwilling to go down the same path as her mother, Maren leaves while Lee is asleep. She is soon accosted by Sully, who has been stalking her. She again turns down his offer to become companions, causing him to curse at her angrily before departing. Once he realizes Maren is gone, a devastated Lee decides to return home.

Maren eventually makes her way back to Kentucky. She runs into Kayla, who reveals that, on the night of her and Lee's alcoholic, abusive father's disappearance, he beat both of his children before mysteriously vanishing while Kayla ran to get the police. Having been held as the prime suspect, Lee was cleared once it was proven that the blood found on him was his own. Maren and Lee reunite and rekindle their relationship, before deciding to travel westward with no clear destination in mind. Lee tells Maren that he realized his father was also an eater when he bit Lee during their scuffle, and that he hid him away before feeding off him, tearfully confessing to enjoying the thrill the act gave him. He asks Maren if she thinks he is a bad person, but she declares her love for him, and they decide to attempt to live a normal life together.

Sometime later, they are shown to be living happily in Ann Arbor, Michigan. Maren comes home one day to find Sully, who murdered and cannibalized Kayla on the way, has broken into their apartment. He threatens Maren at knifepoint, bemoaning her past rejections. Once Lee arrives, the couple succeeds in killing Sully, but Lee is fatally wounded in the struggle. As he bleeds out in Maren's arms, Lee pleads for her to eat his body as he dies, "bones and all". Maren frantically refuses at first, but eventually gives in.

