Alice and Jack Chambers are married, living in Victory, California, an idealistic 1950s desert company town. Every day, the men leave for work at Victory Headquarters in the surrounding desert, which their wives are discouraged from entering or even asking about. The women live as housewives and enjoy luxuries and leisure while the men are out.

Alice spends her days with other wives, including her best friend Bunny. Another resident, Margaret, has become estranged from the group ever since she had a mental breakdown after her unauthorized desert visit resulted in her son's apparent death. Margaret claims Victory took him as punishment for breaking the rules. At a party hosted by Victory's enigmatic founder Frank, Alice witnesses Margaret's husband attempt to medicate her after an outburst. 

While riding the trolley, Alice sees a plane crash in the desert so rushes to help. She stumbles onto Headquarters and touches one of its mirror-like windows, experiencing surreal hallucinations about another life before waking up home that night. 

Alice continues to experience increasingly strange occurrences, then receives a phone call from Margaret, who claims to have seen the same things. After brushing her off, she witnesses her slit her own throat and fall to her death. Before she can reach Margaret's body, Alice is dragged away by men in red jumpsuits who work for Frank.

Jack dismisses Alice's claims and says Margaret is simply recovering from a household accident. When Alice asks him what is really happening at the Victory Project, he becomes angry and gaslights her. The town physician, Dr. Collins, prescribes Alice medication, which Jack declines, and she steals Margaret's heavily redacted medical file from his briefcase before burning it. 

Becoming increasingly paranoid, during a company celebration where Frank promotes Jack, Alice breaks down in the bathroom. Comforted by Bunny, she attempts to explain her suspicions. Bunny reacts angrily when Alice tells her she went to Headquarters, accusing her of jeopardizing their livelihood in Victory.

Alice and Jack invite their neighbors to dinner, including Frank and his wife Shelley. Frank privately confirms her suspicions and taunts her to challenge him. Spurred on, Alice attempts to expose him over dinner, but he makes her appear delusional to the others, causing Jack grief over her supposed mental deterioration. 

Afterwards, Jack again won't listen when Alice talks of Frank or Victory's wrongdoings. She begs him to leave, to which he feigns agreement, but instead lets Frank's men take her. Dr. Collins gives Alice electroshock therapy, during which she sees herself in the 21st century, struggling to get by as surgical resident Alice Warren and living with the unemployed, lazy Jack.

After her treatment, Alice resumes her normal life, but comes to realize the visions are actually memories. Realizing he can no longer conceal it, Jack finally reveals the truth: Victory is a simulated world created by Frank, where he and the other men lead their version of perfect lives; the women they have forced into the 1950s simulation are unaware that life there and Victory are fakes. 

When the men leave for work each day, they are actually leaving the simulation for real jobs to pay for their drugged wives to stay there. Jack argues that Alice was miserable in the real world while Victory means they can both finally be happy, but she is livid she's trapped there without her consent. Jack begs Alice to stay, forcefully grabbing her, prompting her to smash a glass over his head, killing him in both the simulation and reality.

Frank immediately hears of Jack's death, while Bunny finds Alice and admits she has always known of the simulation, but chose to stay to be with her children, who died in real life. She says her real body will be killed by Frank's minions, if she doesn't get to Headquarters{{snd}}the exit portal from the simulation. Alice silently confronts the neighborhood, leading the other wives to become aware, while the husbands panic. 

Fleeing in Jack's car, Alice is chased by Dr. Collins and Frank's men, maneuvering them into fatally crashing. Meanwhile, Shelley fatally stabs Frank to take control of Victory. Arriving at Headquarters, Alice has a final simulation vision of Jack, then puts her hands on Headquarters just as Frank's men reach her. The screen cuts to black, and Alice gasps for air.

