An elderly couple is driving through the Florida countryside when an old truck tailgates them before passing. They observe the driver next to an abandoned church placing what appears to be a body wrapped in a blood-stained sheet into a large pipe sticking out of the ground. After the truck causes them to run off the road, they turn around to investigate the pipe and are horrified by what is inside.

In 2021, millennial couple Chase and Laine travel to the ''Horror Hound'' festival in rural Louisiana. Chase is a paranormal fanatic, taking a special interest in the local urban legend of "the Creeper", a creature that every 23 years, for 23 days, kills and eats hundreds of people before disappearing. Chase plans to propose marriage to Laine on their trip, and unbeknownst to him, Laine believes she is pregnant. Meanwhile, the Creeper awakens and begins to feed in order to increase its strength. Stopping at a gift shop, Laine has a premonition when she touches a mysterious artifact. Owner Lady Manilla gives cryptic messages to the couple. At the hotel, Laine takes a pregnancy test but is interrupted when a crow slams into the window. The couple then depart for the festival.

At ''Horror Hound'', Laine picks up a mysterious shuriken and finds she is abnormally skilled at throwing it. The Creeper arrives and begins hunting; using its truck, it knocks out internet connectivity. The couple enters into a raffle hosted by festival organizer Madam Carnage, for a chance to win a night at an abandoned plantation house that has been converted into an escape room. Laine begins to have visions of her involvement in a strange ritual within the house. A cameraman and associated crew accompanies them to document the event, along with a local tour guide, Stu.

As the group approaches the house, they travel through an 18th-century graveyard where the Creeper kills the cameraman and abducts Laine as Chase proposes to her. Laine awakens bound to a table where the Creeper pierces her abdomen with a knife. The group enters the house and feuds over their situation; Stu fires his pistol into the air attracting the Creeper's attention. The Creeper leaves Laine and hunts the group throughout the house, eventually killing all of them save for Stu and Chase. 

Laine frees herself and joins them; she reveals to Chase that she is pregnant and that the Creeper has specifically targeted her as a result. They discover that Madam Carnage, Lady Manilla, and others have been worshiping the Creeper and luring victims to the house for its consumption. They enact a plan for Laine to lure the Creeper outside so Chase and Stu can push the weathervane onto it. Laine blinds the Creeper with its shuriken, and the falling weathervane impales it. A murder of crows consume the Creeper, while also pushing Stu off the roof killing him, and fly into the night. The group departs, while elsewhere the Creeper regenerates and unleashes a devilish roar.

