Recovering addict Darby Thorne learns that her mother is in the hospital after suffering a brain aneurysm, and is undergoing emergency surgery. She escapes rehab and drives to Salt Lake City. While stopped in the middle of the road, Corporal Ron Hill tells her that the interstate is closed because of a developing blizzard. She agrees to stay overnight at a local visitor's center. The only people inside are Ash, Lars, and married couple Ed and Sandi. Darby goes outside to look for cellphone signal and ends up discovering a kidnapped girl in a van belonging to one of the people inside.

Playing a round of Bullshit, Darby uses her knowledge of the van's license plate to question the others and deduce that Lars is the kidnapper. She goes to the bathroom and uses a hole in the wall to go back outside. Darby breaks into the van and talks to the girl, promising to save her. Unaware of her presence, Lars enters the van and reveals the girl's name to be Jay. Inside, Ed grows suspicious of Lars's strange behavior. As Lars exits the van to bring Jay some food, Darby goes back inside the cabin through the hole in the wall.

Jay has Addison's disease, which can cause an adrenaline overdose if she becomes too stressed. In the bathroom, Darby tells Ash about Jay. Ash agrees to help her. When Darby goes outside, however, Ash reveals that he is Lars's brother and an accomplice in the kidnapping. Ash takes Darby back inside and threatens to kill her if she informs Ed and Sandi about Jay. Outside, Jay cuts herself free and runs into the woods. In the bathroom, Darby attacks Ash, but he gains the upper hand. Lars goes through the hole in the wall and stops his brother from strangling Darby. In the struggle, Darby takes Ash's keys.

Ash and Lars force Darby to help them look for Jay. Ash reveals that they are transporting her to their Uncle Kenny, who runs a human trafficking ring, while Lars ignorantly believes it to be "finding them better homes". Darby uses a flashlight to blind the kidnappers and runs away. Ash fires his firearm, alerting Ed and Sandi. Ed and Sandi find Jay unconscious in the snow. Darby goes inside the cabin and tells Ed and Sandi about the kidnappers. After locking the entrance, Ed negotiates with Ash and Lars. He promises to give them the car keys if they give Jay the medicine she needs to survive. As Darby hides the keys, Ash and Lars cover the cabin in gasoline. Jay wakes up and identifies Sandi as her maid. A flashback reveals that Sandi helped Ash and Lars take Jay from her home under the agreement she'd be ransomed, unaware of the truth. She agreed to meet with the kidnappers to give them Jay's medicine. In the present, Sandi lets Ash and Lars inside.

After learning that Darby is the only person who knows where the keys are, Ash kills Ed and Sandi and uses a nail gun to staple Darby to a wall. Her phone receives a text message; Ash reads it and informs her that her mother has died. Another text reveals that Corporal Ron is on his way to the cabin. When Ash threatens to hurt Jay, Darby reveals the key's whereabouts. Ash gives his gun to Lars before leaving to search for the keys. Darby tells Jay to turn off the lights.

Darby snorts heroin to numb the pain receptors to pull the nail out of her hand. With Lars distracted, she takes his gun as Ash returns. During a standoff with Darby holding Lars hostage, Jay hits Ash's nailgun with a hammer, thus shooting a nail in Lars' forehead. Darby and Jay run outside to make their escape. Ash punctures their vehicle and sets the cabin on fire. After Corporal Ron arrives, Darby shoots Ash while Ron shoots Darby. Ash takes her weapon and shoots Ron dead. As he prepares to kill Darby, she uses a screwdriver to puncture his neck, killing him. Darby uses Ron's radio to call for help. In a flash-forward, Darby's sister Devon visits her in rehab.

