Ustad Qodrat, a veteran exorcist, fails to exorcise his son, Alif Al-Fatanah, who is possessed and killed by a demon named As'-Su' A'la. Sentenced to three years of imprisonment for gross negligence, Qodrats grows greatly depressed. In prison, Qodrat is killed by As'-Su' A'la after he is invited by his prolonged grieving. However, he is brought back to life after a transit to Barzakh (purgatory) where he realizes his mistakes. Looking for answers to his worries, Qodrat returns to the boarding school in the village he studied, which has become rampant with unexplained disturbances. Jihan, a girl, is possessed by an unknown demon who forces her to commit suicide. Villagers are running out of resources due to their crops failing in the last three years. They resort to ''jampi'' (Javanese spells) to deal with the disturbances, to no avail.

Alif Amri, a boy, is possessed by a demon which attacks his mother Yasmin and sister Asha. Qodrat is faced with the trauma of having to exorcise his son's namesake. During the exorcism, Qodrat learns that the demon is Khodab, As'-Su' A'la's minion who threatens Qodrat to call his master. Qodrat has to choose between obeying his anger or re-finding his faith. A man named Jafar takes Yasmin's family after As'-Su' A'la attacks them. Qodrat later learns that the boarding school deprived the villagers' land rights, as Jafar took them away on behalf of the school for payment of his service. Jihan's family's land had also been claimed by Jafar, resulting in him being unemployed. Enraged, he vents his anger to Qodrat and beats him mercilessly. He stops when they witness Tanti, Jihan's mother, commit suicide by jumping from the cliff in front of them.

Alif recovers, however he recites a ''jampi'' in lieu of a basmala when praying. Yasmin is then possessed by As'-Su' A'la, who wreaks havoc in her house. Asha seeks help at the school, leaving Alif with Yasmin. Qodrat eventually learns from Kyai Rochim that it is Jafar who caused the disturbances. Jafar summoned various demons, including As'-Su' A'la, to gain power from the village, and that he is a black kejawèn dukun (shaman of a folk Javenese religion) disguised an ustad. Qodrat kills him, then fights As'-Su' A'la who is then expelled from Yasmin, only to possess Alif Amri. As'-Su' A'la casts a spell to morph the appearance of Alif into Alif Al-Fatanah to deceive Qodrat. After breaking its spell, Qodrat is finally able to expel it from Alif. Six months later, the village regains prosperity. Qodrat then leaves the village; while driving, he sees thunder from afar. Taking this as a sign, he speeds up towards the thunder.

