Young mother of two Jessica Nash is in the midst of fixing up the closet of her late grandmother's house (that she inherited) so that she can sell it and move. However, she accidentally gets stuck. She tries to get her young daughter Lainey to help her get out, but Lainey is unable to bring her the key. Jessica's ex-boyfriend Rob shows up with his friend Sammy, and Rob gets her out. However, Jessica is furious with Rob for bringing Sammy, a pedophile, to her house. Sammy manipulates Rob into getting him to put Jessica back into the closet before they leave. However, Sammy later breaks in.

Jessica manages to trick Sammy into reaching under the closet door, where she nails his hand to the ground with a screwdriver that Lainey brought her earlier, trapping Sammy next to her. She yells for Lainey to stay upstairs with her baby brother Mason, but Lainey comes downstairs. Sammy grabs Lainey and threatens to assault her if Jessica doesn't free him, but Jessica sets his hand on fire. This makes Sammy let Lainey go without hurting her. Although Jessica is forced to put out the fire so she doesn't suffocate herself, Sammy's hand is severely burned and mutilated, and it appears as though Sammy is dead.

Jessica removes the screwdriver so she can escape by crawling through the ceiling onto the second storey. She brings Lainey and Mason to the car, but it starts to rain heavily, so Jessica lets her kids go back inside while she gets the door open. However, Sammy is still alive and he grabs the kids. Jessica runs back inside, but Sammy has a knife to Mason's throat.

Rob arrives with a gun and shoots Sammy in the head, and he and Jessica try to reconcile. However, Jessica realizes that Rob will always put his drugs before her and their children, so she slips him three grams of crystal meth. Rob attempts to persuade Jessica to relapse along with him, prompting her to attack him. As Rob is about to inject Jessica, he overdoses, and she pushes him out a window to his death.

Some time later, Jessica and her kids are shown in the house, now cleaned up, making and selling her own apple butter (inspired by her mother's recipe) and mostly happy.

