The stream team (Flynn, Jack, Liz, and Jules) are a group of famous influencers who have been invited to the home of Stephen Rektor, a billionaire media mogul and pharmaceutical engineer. Unbeknownst to the stream team, Rektor and his family are actually vampires. 

En route to the mansion the team meets Elliot Jones, a former television personality who lost his daughter to a vampire attack. Elliot warns the stream team about Rektor but the team dismisses his warning as paranoid ramblings. 

At the mansion, the team is quickly separated. David, the teams manager, is tricked by Beverly Rektor and killed. Liz and Jack (who are a couple) are given lucrative offers to work for Rektor promoting a vaccine that will make the world immune to disease, but actually purifies the blood of humanity for vampiric consumption.

Jules is lured to the stables by Harry Rektor with the promise of a date. Flynn (who is Jack's sister), had earlier sensed that something was amiss and discovers Jules being attacked by Harry. Jules is mauled to death by Harry but Harry is killed when Elliot shows up. Flynn and Elliot then retreat to Elliot's camper where he explains the history of the vampires. 

Meanwhile, in the mansion, Liz is given an injection that turns her into a vampire by Beverly while Jack enters a VR world where he meets Stephen Rektor, the vampire leader and Dark Lord. 

Stephen and Beverly live forever by drinking blood but also by transferring their blood to another host as their bodies do eventually wear down. Liz and Jack have been chosen as replacements for Stephen and Beverly's old hosts. 

Flynn and Elliot assault the mansion in the hope of saving Jack. After overpowering their henchman, they encounter Beverly (who has transferred her blood and spirit into Liz) guarding Stephen and Jack who have not completed their transfer.

Even though Stephen wakes up before the transfer is completed, Elliot and Flynn manage to knock out both Beverly and Stephen. Not knowing any other way to kill a Dark Lord vampire, Elliot elects to stay behind with a bomb as Jack and Flynn escape.

In a post credits scene it is revealed that Elliot was successful in killing Stephen, Beverly and the other vampires and that Jack and Flynn made it to safety.

