Mad scientist Dr. Henry Augustus Wolfgang and his hunchbacked assistant Floop rob graves for body parts to build an experimental creation including the fingers of the zombie pianist Franz Pennywhacker who Wolfgang strikes in the head to render him dead. Floop accidentally steals the head of hacky comedian Shecky Von Rathbone instead of Shecky's astrophysicist brother Shelly, whom Wolfgang wanted. Wolfgang uses electricity to give life to his Frankenstein creation, which Floop names "Herman Munster".

Seeking revenge on her ex-husband The Count, Romani Zoya Krupp entrances The Count's werewolf son Lester to come to her tent as she states that Lester owes her money. Under threat of Zoya's brother Bela beheading him, Lester agrees to Zoya's plan to have The Count sell her his Transylvanian castle so she can turn it into a casino and theme park. Lester calls his father with the proposal, but The Count immediately dismisses it.

Over breakfast served by faithful servant Igor, The Count talks with his 150-year-old vampire daughter Lily Gruesella about her unsatisfying love life and disappointing recent date with Count Orlock. Lily and The Count watch the TV show ''Good Morning Transylvania'' with host Ezra Mosher. Ezra's guest Dr. Wolfgang unveils Herman Munster live on the air. Wolfgang is disgusted to discover Herman is a bumbling brute with a goofy sense of humor when he begins performing a stand-up comedy routine. However, Lily falls in love with Herman's unusual personality.

Herman becomes a celebrity with Floop acting as his manager and Lily goes to see him perform with his band "The Punk Rods" at Zoya's nightclub. Lily is directed to him by Lester after he received another warning from Zoya. Herman immediately falls for Lily when they meet. The two agree to a dinner date the following night at The Count's castle. The Count takes an instant disliking to Herman due to his dimwittedness and begins scheming with Igor to use a magic spell to get rid of him. The Count later tries to conjure a new mate for Lily, but his potion inadvertently summons a semi-sentient chimpanzee instead.

A week of dating culminates in Herman and Lily vacationing at Devil's Island Penal Colony. Lily accepts Herman's wedding proposal. Herman meets Lester for the first time at his wedding. With Herman as the new head of the household, Lester manipulates him into signing over the castle's deed to Zoya by promising a lucrative business venture. Herman and Lily are married as Wolfgang states to the Count that Herman is now his problem.

Herman and Lily honeymoon in Paris, where Herman captures a reptilian creature that had been haunting the city's sewers. Herman and Lily adopt the monster as a pet who they name Spot. After Zoya serves him with an eviction notice, The Count angrily confronts Herman in Paris. Lily learns that Herman fell for one of Lester's schemes, costing them their home. Lily states that she will call the lawyer Shady MaGoon when they get back to Transylvania.

After Lily hears some comments from the incarcerated Shady MaGoon confirming that they don't have a case against Zoya, Herman watches a TV personality named Zombo and decides that they can get a fresh start by moving to Hollywood so he can become a famous star. Realtor Barbara Carr gives them a brief tour of Hollywood before taking them to Mockingbird Heights. Barbara shows The Munsters a model home, but the trio insists on buying a dilapidated old house at the 1313 address.

The family join their neighbors for a Halloween block party. Unaware of the holiday's customs, The Munsters assume they are partying with other freaks and weirdos. The residents assume The Munsters are wearing costumes, and award them a $1,500 contest prize.

Herman leaves the house for his first day of work carrying corpses at the Gateman, Goodbury, and Graves funeral parlor. Getting his first look at Mockingbird Heights outside of Halloween, Herman retreats in shock when he sees that they live among normal people in an idyllic suburb. Lily and The Count are equally horrified.

Lester arrives at the house unexpectedly. Although The Munsters are initially unhappy to see him after what Zoya made him do, Lester presents Herman with a check for his portion of gambling money that Lester won in Las Vegas using Zoya's payment for The Count's castle. Herman and The Munsters excitedly realize they are now rich.

