In 1979, police officers arrive on a desolate farm in rural Texas and find numerous dead bodies wrapped in bags. They enter the farmhouse and find something shocking in the basement.

Twenty-four hours earlier, aspiring adult film star Maxine embarks on a road trip with her producer boyfriend Wayne, fellow actors Bobby-Lynne and Jackson, amateur director RJ, and RJ's girlfriend Lorraine, to shoot a pornographic film. Bobby-Lynne and Jackson strike up a romance, while RJ attempts to make the film seem like a serious cinematic work of art, and Lorraine, who assists with equipment and lighting, is unimpressed.

The group arrive at a farm owned by Howard and Pearl, an elderly couple who have a guesthouse where they intend to shoot the film. Howard is temperamental towards the group, but Wayne excuses this, as he did not inform Howard of the group's intentions. While the crew film a sex scene between Bobby-Lynne and Jackson, Maxine wanders around the property and discovers a large pond where she goes for a swim, unknowingly watched by Pearl from the trees, and also stalked by a large alligator that nearly gets her as she exits the water. Upon returning to the guest house, Maxine is invited inside the farmhouse by Pearl, where she expresses envy for Maxine's youth and makes a sexual advance towards her. Howard returns home as Maxine sneaks out.

Maxine returns to the guesthouse where she and Jackson shoot a sex scene in the barn; unbeknownst by the group, Pearl watches from outside and is highly aroused, imagining herself in Maxine's position. She then returns home and pleads with Howard to have sex but he refuses, claiming his heart is too weak. Night falls and the group unwind in the guesthouse. Lorraine, intrigued by what she saw filmed, asks to participate in a sex scene; RJ initially refuses but, after being persuaded by Wayne, he films Lorraine and Jackson in an additional sex scene. Later, devastated, RJ sets out to leave the group stranded at the farm while they are asleep, but discovers Pearl standing in the driveway. He tries to help her, but she tries to make sexual advances on him. When he rebuffs her, she stabs him with a hidden knife repeatedly in the neck until he is decapitated.

Noticing RJ is missing, Lorraine enlists Wayne's help in finding him. Wayne, only in his underwear, searches the barn and steps on a large nail. He then sees something moving outside and, when he peeps through a hole in the door, Pearl shoves a pitchfork through the hole into his eyes, killing him instantly. Meanwhile, Howard invites Lorraine into their house, claiming Pearl has gone missing due to her not being well. He asks Lorraine to retrieve a flashlight from the basement; she goes down and discovers a naked male corpse hanging from the ceiling.

Howard goes to the guesthouse and asks Jackson to help him find Pearl. When they split up to scout the lake's perimeter, Jackson finds a submerged car in the water. Howard throws his flashlight into the lake, tricking Jackson to go in to retrieve it, hoping he will be attacked by the alligator lurking nearby. Jackson makes it out but is confronted by Howard who shoots him in the chest, blowing his body back into the lake. Meanwhile, Pearl sneaks into the guesthouse, undresses, and climbs into bed with Maxine, caressing her body. Maxine awakens in horror to find Pearl lying next to her, waking Bobby-Lynne.

Back in the house, Lorraine breaks through the basement door with a hatchet but Howard attacks, breaking her fingers with the butt of his shotgun. Bobby-Lynne finds Pearl standing on the edge of the lake. Thinking she has dementia, Bobby-Lynne tries to help her, only for Pearl to slap her, insult her, and push her into the water where the alligator rips her to shreds. Pearl and Howard reunite and enter the guesthouse where they have sex, while Maxine hides under the bed they are in. Maxine manages to escape to the van where she finds RJ's decapitated corpse and the vehicle's tires slashed. She arms herself with a pistol from the glovebox and enters the house to free a traumatized Lorraine from the basement. Lorraine becomes hysterical and blames Maxine for what has occurred. She attempts to flee the house, but is shot in the head by Howard. As the couple begin moving her body inside the house, Lorraine's corpse twitches, startling Howard and causing him to have a heart attack and die.

Maxine retrieves the keys to Howard's truck and attempts to shoot Pearl, but finds that the pistol is not loaded. Pearl then tries to shoot Maxine with Howard's shotgun; Maxine dodges the shot, and the blast sends Pearl out the front door onto the porch, breaking her hip. As Pearl lies in pain, she begs Maxine for help. As Maxine gets into Howard's truck, Pearl starts to berate and insult her. Maxine then reverses the truck and runs over Pearl's head before driving away.

The following morning, the police arrive at the house and find the bodies. It is revealed on Pearl and Howard's television set that Maxine is the daughter of a fanatical Christian preacher whose speeches frequently played throughout the film. The police discover RJ's camera and speculate about what it contains, with the sheriff speculating that it contains footage of "one goddamn fucked up horror picture."

