Dan Torrance, still traumatized from his family's 1980 ordeal at the Overlook Hotel, is followed by the ghosts of the Overlook, seeking his "shining". The ghost of Dick Hallorann teaches him how to capture the ghosts in psychic lockboxes. By 2011, he has become an alcoholic to suppress his abilities. After moving to a New Hampshire town, he recovers through Alcoholics Anonymous set up by his new friend Billy Freeman and becomes a hospice orderly, where he uses his shining to comfort dying patients, who nickname him "Doctor Sleep". Meanwhile, the True Knot, a cult of psychic vampires led by Rose the Hat, feed on "steam", a psychic essence released by torturing and killing those who have the shining, especially children.

In 2019, a young girl named Abra Stone, whose shining is even greater than Dan's, telepathically reaches out to him and the two form a psychic friendship. Meanwhile, the True Knot are starving, as steam has become increasingly rare. They torture a boy to death for steam; Abra senses this and alerts Dan about the murder, but Rose senses Abra in the process. Rose projects her consciousness across the country and infiltrates Abra's mind, but is physically injured by a psychic trap set by Abra. Rose sends the remaining members after her, convinced that Abra's immense powers will supply them with steam for years to come.

Abra informs Dan about the True Knot. Although initially hesitant, Hallorann encourages him, and he recruits Billy and Abra's father, Dave, to help. They successfully kill most of the True Knot except Rose, but Billy and Dave are killed and Abra is captured by Rose's partner, Crow Daddy. Dan possesses Abra and saves her from Crow Daddy, killing him in the process. Knowing Rose is coming for them, Dan brings Abra to the Overlook as a last resort, believing it will be equally dangerous for Rose. He starts and sets the hotel's boiler to overload, and "awakens" the building's dormant malevolence with his shining. At the same time, he has visions of his time at the hotel and confronts an apparition of his father.

Rose arrives at the Overlook and overpowers Dan in a fight, but he saves himself by releasing the Overlook's ghosts from his lockboxes. Drawn to Rose's power, the ghosts overwhelm and devour her before turning on Danny and possessing him in a bid to try and make him kill Abra. Briefly able to regain control, he tells her to flee before the hotel overcomes him again. He goes to the boiler room but regains control before the hotel can make him deactivate it. As fire erupts, Dan sees a vision of himself as a child being comforted by his mother, Wendy. Abra escapes as the Overlook burns down and the authorities arrive.

Sometime later, Abra speaks to Dan's spirit, assuring him that she is fine. Dan comforts Abra, telling her to "shine on" and not to hide her gifts from the world. She shares to her mother that she has been conversing with Dan and her deceased father and that they are okay. Abra later encounters Mrs. Massey, the ghost of the bathroom in the Overlook's Room 237, in her bathtub; she confronts the ghost and closes the door behind her.

