On Halloween night in Carbondale, Illinois, roommates Harper and Bailey attend a party together where they meet with their friends Angela and Mallory. The group befriends two guys, Nathan and Evan, at a local bar. Throughout the night, Harper suspects she is being stalked by a man in a devil mask. The group encounters a haunted house attraction. Before they enter, they have to surrender their cell phones and sign liability waivers.  The group becomes separated after entering a maze; Bailey, Nathan and Angela encounter a series of armholes. As Bailey sticks her arm inside, it is slashed with a straight razor. She also accidentally loses Harper's mom's ring, which she was wearing. Harper and Evan lose Mallory. They meet back up with the others and witness a performer in a witch mask impale Mallory through the head with a hot fire poker.

Now believing they are in danger, the group sends Nathan to find an exit. He encounters a man in a ghost mask, "Mitch", who agrees to help. Devil Mask kills Angela. Bailey flees into the tunnels and accidentally activates the trap door, dropping Nathan into the house's operation rooms. He saves Harper from Devil Mask before finding the group's phones. Evan and Mitch make it outside, but Mitch kills him with a hammer before ripping off his face.

Nathan manages to give the location of the house to Harper's abusive boyfriend, Sam, before making it out of the house. Harper enters an escape room very similar to her childhood bedroom where she witnessed her father abuse her mother. Devil Mask attacks her and she kills him. She then encounters another performer in a skull mask and kills them too, but is horrified to find that the person in the costume was Bailey, who was previously captured by the other performers. Sam arrives at the house, where he is promptly killed by the attraction's ringleader, a man in a clown mask.

Nathan goes back inside to save the others but is attacked by Mitch, while Harper is attacked by a man in a zombie mask. She defeats her attacker before helping Nathan kill Mitch. They encounter a man in a vampire mask, who explains that the performers are part of a cult that makes extreme modifications to their faces to look like real monsters, and like to rip the faces off their victims. He is shot to death by Zombie Mask. Harper and Nathan escape the house, killing Witch Mask in the process. Zombie Mask attacks them but Nathan kills him before the two escape in Sam's truck. Clown Mask proceeds to burn down the attraction. Harper and Nathan reach a hospital, where the nurse asks Harper to write her address on a release form similar to the one they were asked to sign before entering the house.

Sometime later, Clown Mask arrives at Harper's house with the intent of killing her, but becomes stuck in a trap by Harper, who emerges with a shotgun and shoots him.

