As a child, Daniel le Domas is confronted in his family's mansion by a wounded man named Charles, who begs him for help. Instead, Daniel alerts his family, who arrive in ceremonial masks and robes. Despite his bride's pleas, Charles is shot with a speargun and dragged away into a locked room.

Thirty years later, Daniel's brother Alex, the estranged son of the owners of the successful Le Domas Family Games company, is set to marry Grace, a former foster child. On her wedding day, she meets the le Domases: Daniel and his snobbish wife Charity; Alex's cocaine-addicted sister Emilie, her oafish husband Fitch, and their young sons Georgie and Gabe; Alex's unpleasant Aunt Helene, and his parents Tony and Becky. After the ceremony, Tony explains that his ancestor Victor le Domas made a deal with a man named "le Bail" to build the Le Domas fortune in exchange for the family observing a tradition: at midnight on their wedding day, every new member draws a game card from Le Bail's puzzle box. Grace draws "Hide-and-Seek". Believing it to be a harmless game Grace goes to hide herself as the Le Domases each receive a weapon. Alex manages to find Grace, who witnesses Emilie accidentally kill a maid whom she mistakes for Grace.

Alex reveals that his family is cursed: if the new member draws the Hide-and-Seek card, the rest of the family has to find and ritually sacrifice them before dawn or they die instead. The deadly game was last played by Helene's husband, Charles. With the mansion locked down, Alex disables the security system to allow Grace to escape. She is discovered by Daniel, who is disillusioned with his family and gives her a head start before alerting the others, in the chaos Emilie accidentally kills another maid. Grace's escape is blocked by the family butler, Stevens. She, in turn, splatters the hot tea he was preparing on his face and runs away. Alex is restrained by Daniel and Tony after he attacks the latter. Grace is seen by a third maid, but the maid accidentally crushes herself in a dumbwaiter when she yells for the family.

Grace runs to the stables where Georgie shoots her in the hand. She knocks him out but is startled by a goat and falls into a pit filled with the corpses of the le Domases' previous sacrifices, including that of Charles. She escapes and makes it through the front gate. Grace is pursued into the forest by Stevens, even though she fights him off she is eventually captured by him. As he is driving Grace back to the house she awakens and attacks him, causing the car to crash and kill him. Daniel, nearby the crash, captures Grace after realizing that his father is secretly watching.

The le Domases prepare to complete the ritual sacrifice, however they are incapacitated after Daniel poisoned them with a non-lethal dose of hydrochloric acid in the ritual cup. Charity shoots Daniel in the neck after he attempts to protect Grace, leaving him to bleed to death as Grace runs away. In the ongoing chaos, the mansion is set on fire, and Grace is attacked by Becky, whom she beats to death with Le Bail's box.

Alex escapes his restraints and goes to find Grace, but witnesses her attacking his mother. Grace pulls away from Alex, realizing that she will never trust him and will almost certainly leave him once she escapes, he subdues her to complete the ritual. Grace breaks free from the ritual table just as the sun rises. The le Domases brace for death, but nothing happens and it briefly appears as though the curse was not real. Despite Grace having won the game, Helene attempts to attack her anyway but suddenly explodes midstride, revealing that the curse was real after all. The rest of the family explode one by one, and when only Alex is left, he tries and fails to convince Grace to forgive him. Grace tells Alex she wants a divorce and tosses her ring back at Alex, who then succumbs to the curse and explodes too. Le Bail briefly appears and gives Grace a slight head nod.

The sole survivor of the night, Grace walks out of the burning manor just as the police arrive. Upon asking her what happened, she simply replies "in-laws".

