{{long plot|date=October 2023}}
On Halloween 1968, in the fictional Pennsylvania town of Mill Valley, teenagers Stella, Auggie and Chuck, prank  local bully, Tommy Milner. When Tommy and his gang chase them, the three take refuge in the car of a young drifter named Ramón Morales.

They conclude their Halloween night by visiting the supposedly haunted home of the wealthy Bellows family, who once owned the local paper mill during the 1890s. Inside a secret room, they find a book of horror stories written by Sarah Bellows, the family's albino teenage daughter, who was accused of witchcraft when the town's children mysteriously began to die and she allegedly committed suicide in 1898 by hanging herself. While drunk, Tommy locks the group inside Sarah's room along with Ruth, Chuck's sister. After Tommy leaves, the lock is mysteriously opened, and Stella takes Sarah's storybook home.

Back home, Stella discovers that a new story called "Harold" has appeared on a previously blank page of Sarah's storybook. In a nearby cornfield, an inebriated Tommy is stalked by the titular Harold—his family's scarecrow—after it comes to life. He notices that Harold continuously moves towards his location. Harold starts walking towards him and Tommy runs away.

When Tommy runs into Harold, the creature stabs him in the back with a pitchfork, causing Tommy to vomit hay and undergo a violent transformation. The next day, Tommy is reported missing, and Stella and Ramón find Harold dressed in Tommy's clothes. Stella is convinced that Tommy has been turned into a scarecrow.

A new story called "The Big Toe" appears in Sarah's storybook. Auggie, the protagonist of the story, is kidnapped by a corpse searching for its missing toe, which is inside a stew that Auggie unknowingly eats. Auggie is then dragged under his bed by the corpse and disappears. After the remaining friends vainly attempt to destroy the storybook, they research Sarah's life.

Another new story called "The Red Spot" is magically written. Ruth is sitting in the backstage room, getting her makeup ready for the play, and starts poking at a swollen spider bite on her cheek, which explodes and releases hundreds of tiny spiders. Ruth is rescued but is traumatized, and the play is cancelled.

The group's investigation takes them to the elderly Lou-Lou Baptiste, who was once a child servant of the Bellows family, and they learn that Sarah did not die in the Bellows' house like many believed. Instead, she hanged herself in the hospital where her older brother, Dr. Ephraim Bellows, was her supervising doctor.

They head to the local hospital, where they discover archived wax cylinder recordings that reveal Sarah's brother had ruthlessly performed electroshock therapy on her as part of a cover-up to get her to confess to killing the children. The family's mill had knowingly been poisoning the town's water with mercury from the paper manufacturing, leading to the deaths of the town's children, and Sarah was tortured by her family for trying to reveal the truth. To avoid drawing legitimate suspicion to their family business, the Bellows blamed Sarah for killing the children with witchcraft.

Chuck, while trying to evade hospital security, accidentally triggers an alarm which floods the hallways in the same red light from his nightmares. In the recording, Sarah begins to narrate a new story called "The Red Room", with Chuck as the main character. Chuck is then attacked and cornered by the Pale Lady, a phantom from his nightmares, who absorbs him.

Stella and Ramón are arrested for trespassing by Police Chief Turner, who reveals that Ramón is a Vietnam War draft dodger. Ramón reveals that it was out of fear after his brother enlisted and his dead body was returned to them in pieces.

A head falls down the chimney and more body parts follow. Ramón realizes that the next creature is called the Jangly Man, a monster from a story called "Me Tie Dough-ty Walker" that frightened him as a child. The Jangly Man attacks Turner and snaps his neck while Ramón and Stella escape and run to the Bellows' house for answers.

Stella is taken back in time while Ramón tries to evade the Jangly Man. Living out Sarah's experience of the torture, Stella promises Sarah that she will tell the truth of her innocence if she stops harming people. Stella writes down the true story with her blood, and Sarah and all of her monsters vanish.

Stella writes the truth about Sarah's life in the papers, keeping her promise. Ramón accepts his enlistment and shares an emotional goodbye with Stella before he leaves for the war. With Ruth recovered, Stella states that she will find a way to rescue Chuck and Auggie.

