Jannicke (Berdal), the only survivor from the massacre depicted in the previous movie, is found in Jotunheimen and brought to a hospital in Otta. She receives good care, but she is still traumatized from her ordeal. At the hospital she speaks with the police and informs them of the location of the bodies, including that of the killer mountain man. Jannicke also speaks with and befriends a young boy, Daniel, who is a patient as well.

The police discover several bodies in the crevice Jannicke described; one of them is the body of the mountain man, apparently dead. The police transport all the bodies back to the hospital for autopsies. Kindly doctor Camilla informs Jannicke of this, and Jannicke attacks the mountain man's apparently dead body before being restrained.

While a nurse is cataloging the mountain man's clothes, he begins to stir. The staff frantically work to revive the man; when Jannicke hears this she is desperate to stop them, but the staff sedate her despite Camilla's objection. The doctors revive the mountain man, who appears to be in a coma. However, some time later he awakens and murders the policeman who was guarding him.

Meanwhile, the police chief has been researching old files of disappearances, and he discovers that the mountain man has been killing people on the mountain for decades. The man was a disturbed, violent child whose parents owned the mountain hotel. The police return to the crevice and find many more, older bodies.

At the hospital, the mountain man commences a killing spree across the hospital, while Jannicke awakens, finds Daniel and Camilla, and eventually locks the mountain man in the basement. By the time the trio reaches the exit, the police have arrived. Daniel is taken safely away by his mother.

The officers order Jannicke and Camilla to remain outside while they go in to apprehend the (apparently trapped) mountain man. Heedless of Jannicke's warnings, the officers enter the hospital and discover that the mountain man has knocked the basement door down. As they move to leave the hospital, the mountain man springs a trap and kills all of them but Ole, Camilla's boyfriend, who is gravely wounded.

Seeing the flash of gunshots within the hospital, Jannicke demands to enter the hospital with the remaining officer, but before they can act, the mountain man attacks, wounding her and killing the officer. As the mountain man prepares to kill Camilla, he is shot and apparently killed by the dying Ole.

Jannicke comforts Camilla but turns to discover that the mountain man's body has disappeared into the woods, presumably headed towards his lair in the abandoned hotel. The determined Jannicke resolves to return to the hotel to kill him, despite Camilla's warning. Jannicke travels by snowmobile to the hotel, but she falls asleep as she waits for the mountain man's return. When she awakens, he is standing behind her.

After a brief and fierce struggle, the mountain man prepares to kill Jannicke, but he is suddenly shot in the back by the newly arrived Camilla. He grabs Camilla by the head and begins to crush her, but Jannicke spears him through the heart with his own pickaxe. Although Camilla assures her that he is dead, Jannicke  retrieves her shotgun and fires it point blank into the mountain man's head.

