Steve Taylor and his girlfriend Jenny Greengrass set off for a romantic weekend away at a remote lake in the English countryside, where he plans to propose. Steve complains about the behavior of the local children and criticizes the parenting of the adults. In the woods, they meet a young boy named Adam, who is reluctant to speak to them.

The couple's idyllic getaway is disrupted by a gang of rowdy teenagers. The next morning, Steve and Jenny find their food supplies infested with insects. At a local restaurant, Steve describes the teens to the waitress, who defensively insists her kids would never harass anyone. Steve sneaks into a house he believes belongs to the teens. He snoops around but escapes upon the return of Jon, the surly homeowner. 

Back at the lake, the couple discovers their car keys, Steve's phone, and wallet missing. Their car is also gone. Returning to town on foot, they avoid a collision with their own car, driven recklessly by the gang's psychopathic leader, Brett. Finding the gang in the woods after nightfall, Steve demands the return of his belongings. The teens pull out knives, and in the scuffle, Brett's dog is stabbed, sending Brett into a maniacal rage. The couple tries to flee, but the gang causes Steve to crash his car. With Steve trapped, Jenny is forced to run for help.

At daybreak, Jenny stumbles upon the group. To her horror, they have tied Steve to a rock with barbed wire. Brett orders each reluctant teen to stab him so they will all be implicated, making it less likely for members to report the incident to police. Paige, the female gang member, records Steve's torture on her phone. Jenny distracts the gang so Steve can free himself but she is unable to nurse his fatal wounds. She finds the engagement ring in his pocket and wears it before hiding him and running for help.

Jenny runs into Adam, who informs the gang of her location. They tie her, along with Steve's dead body, to a pile of wood; Brett forces Adam to light a bonfire while Paige films it. Jenny escapes and Brett necklaces Adam in retaliation. Jenny accidentally kills a younger gang member, Cooper, who was actually attempting to help her. After finding Cooper's body, Brett is thrown into further rage and beats another gang member to death. Paige flees in fear. Jenny steals a van, running over Paige in anger.

She makes it back to town and crashes into a backyard party. She awakes being comforted by a woman and her husband Jon, and realises she is in Brett's house. The other parents are informed of the dead gang members, who are all the children of the adults at the house.

Jenny locks herself in the bathroom for protection but Jon kicks the door in. As she begs them to call police, Brett convinces the adults that Jenny and Steve murdered the gang members. Jon takes Jenny back into the bathroom with two other men. Brett shuts the door of his room, blocking out the sound of Jenny's screams. He deletes the videos of the gang's crimes from Paige's phone, puts on Steve's sunglasses, and stares blankly into a mirror.

