On the evening of March 11, 2008, news reporter Angela Vidal and her cameraman Scott Percival are filming their report on the night shift at the Los Angeles Fire Department. Two firefighters, Jake and George Fletcher, receive an emergency call from a local apartment building. Screams from the apartment of elderly resident Mrs. Espinosa were heard by the landlord Yuri, his wife Wanda, and other residents: veterinarian Lawrence, opera teacher Bernard, his roommate Sadie, lawyer Randy, mother Kathy, her daughter Briana, and immigrant couple Nadif and Jwahir. The crew enters with police officers Danny and James. They are attacked by an aggressive Espinosa who bites James and Fletcher. Danny shoots her down. The team finds another resident Elise in a similar condition and brings her downstairs with the others. Those wounded by Espinosa become sick and delirious.

The authorities and CDC quarantine the building, not allowing anyone to leave. Angela interviews Briana, who states that her dog is at the vet because he was sick. Lawrence recognizes the symptoms as similar to those of rabies. Angela, Scott, Bernard and Sadie witness a rabid dog maul Randy to death. They are attacked by Elise and Scott kills her in self-defense. CDC officers wearing hazmat suits enter the building to test Fletcher and James, who awaken to attack one of the officers and Lawrence. The surviving inspector reveals that Briana's dog is the reason the CDC has quarantined the building, as it was infected. Briana succumbs and bites her mother before fleeing. The group finds Briana, who is now infected. She bites Danny, which forces the others to rush back downstairs as all the infected break loose. Kathy is killed and Nadif and Jwahir are infected by Lawrence.

The remaining group locks themselves in a room upstairs but discovers both the inspector and Sadie have been bitten. Bernard attempts to escape the building but is killed by a sniper outside. Yuri deduces that the basement, which connects to the sewers, may be the only way out. Yuri is attacked and bitten by the health inspector who has just succumbed to the infection. Wanda refuses to leave her husband behind and gets bitten by Sadie. Jake, Angela, and Scott flee.

The trio manage to find the basement key whilst overcoming most of the infected along the way. Jake is bitten by the infected Yuri, leaving Angela and Scott as the sole survivors. The pair are forced upstairs to the attic apartment by the infected, where they find lab equipment and newspaper clippings belonging to a former tenant, who was a member of a doomsday cult that broke into a military's biological facility and stole a biological weapon called the "Armageddon Virus". The virus is a mutated form of rabies, which is highly contractable and deadly.

A trapdoor opens from the attic and Scott loses the camera light when an infected boy swats at it. Scott turns on the night vision before he and Angela hear banging noises inside the apartment. The source of the noises is an emaciated person, apparently unaware of them, blindly searching.

They attempt to escape but Scott drops the camera as the figure attacks him. Angela retrieves it and sees the infected person eating Scott before she is also attacked. She drops the camera and is dragged into the darkness, screaming.

