Dahlia battles her ex-husband Kyle for custody of their daughter Cecilia, a five-year-old kindergartener. Kyle wants Cecilia to live closer to his apartment in Jersey City, but Dahlia wants to move to the cheaper Roosevelt Island, where she has found a good school.

Dahlia and Cecilia decide to move to an apartment in a dilapidated complex on Roosevelt Island, a few blocks from Cecilia's new school. Cecilia finds a Hello Kitty backpack near the water tower on the roof. Shortly after they move in, the bedroom ceiling begins to leak dark water. Dahlia finds the apartment above flooded and a family portrait of the former tenants, the Rimsky family: a mother, father, and a girl who is Cecilia's age. She complains to the manager, Murray, and the superintendent, Veeck, about the water, but they do nothing. She is intimidated by ghostly visions and a recurring nightmare in which the girl's mother warns her not to tell the police what she's done to her own daughter or else she will harm Cecilia.

Cecilia's teacher is troubled by Cecilia's "imaginary friend" Natasha and Dahlia catches Cecilia talking to Natasha as well. In the bathroom, Cecilia passes out as dark water gushes from the toilets and sinks. As Dahlia is busy meeting her lawyer, Jeff Platzer, Kyle takes their daughter to his home. 

That night, Dahlia sees water spilling from the water tower. Inside she finds Natasha's body and calls the police, horrified. Veeck is arrested for negligence as he was aware of her body. This was why he refused to fix the complex's plumbing problems. Veeck claims that Natasha's parents paid him to keep quiet about their willful abandonment of their daughter. Dahlia and Platzer discover that Natasha's parents had indeed cruelly abandoned her. Left to fend for herself, Natasha fell into the water tower and drowned, leaving her a vengeful ghost who is jealous of Cecilia because she has a mother.

Dahlia agrees to move closer to Kyle so that shared custody will be easier. As she packs, Cecilia asks her to read to her. When she hears Cecilia playing in the bathtub, she realizes that the girl is Natasha, who begs her not to leave and attempts to drown Cecilia until Dahlia promises to be her mother. Floods overwhelm the apartment and drown Dahlia, and Natasha and Dahlia's ghosts walk the hall together.

Three weeks later, Kyle and Cecilia pick up the rest of her belongings in the old apartment. In the elevator, Dahlia's ghost braids Cecilia's hair, telling her she will always be with her. The film ends with Kyle and Cecilia leaving.

