Six months after the events of the first film and following the events of the short film ''Rings'', Samara Morgan's cursed videotape has been circulating through teenagers in Astoria, Oregon. Jake Pierce is on his seventh after watching the cursed videotape. Desperate, he asks his friend Emily to watch it. While Emily supposedly watches the tape, he briefly steps into his kitchen. Jake receives a phone call and is relieved to realize it is only his friend, with whom he had planned to trick Emily into watching the tape. Suddenly, Jake notices dark liquid pouring from under the kitchen door and runs outside to the living room, only to discover Emily closed her eyes while watching the tape. Jake is then promptly murdered by Samara.

Rachel Keller and her son, Aidan, have moved to Astoria from Seattle. Rachel works at ''The Daily Astorian'' for editor Max Rourke. Rachel learns of Jake's death, inspecting his body, only for Samara to appear, declaring that she has been looking for her. Rachel breaks into Jake's house, obtains the videotape and burns it. Aidan experiences a nightmare where Samara drags him into a television. He soon starts developing hypothermia and bruises on his arms. At a county fair, Aidan wanders into a restroom and takes photographs of his reflection, where Samara appears. Rachel takes him home but they are attacked by wild deer on the way. Rachel realizes Aidan may be possessed by Samara.

Max takes them in. While Rachel is attempting to give Aidan a bath, he develops an irrational fear of water. Samara causes the water to recede from the bath, replacing Aidan with herself, and terrorizing Rachel so that she tries to drown Samara. Max enters, seeing her drowning Aidan instead, and forces her to take her son to the hospital. Based on Aidan's bruises, psychiatrist Emma Temple suspects child abuse on the part of Rachel, who admits having postpartum depression, and she sends Rachel away. Looking for answers, Rachel returns to the Morgan ranch on Moesko Island, finding evidence of Samara's biological mother Evelyn, who tried to drown her as an infant. Rachel visits Evelyn in a psychiatric hospital, who advises her to "listen to her baby".

In the hospital, Aidan, possessed by Samara, telepathically forces Dr. Temple to commit suicide, then returns to Max's house. Max arrives, suspects foul play, and tries to secretly take photos of Aidan. Rachel arrives, discovering an affectionate Aidan waiting for her, but acting suspiciously out of character. She steps out, finding Max's corpse in his pickup truck. Rachel falls asleep, dreaming of Aidan, who tells her that she will have to exorcise Samara. Upon awakening, Rachel drugs Samara with sleeping pills and places her in the bath to temporarily drown Aidan in order to exorcise her. Samara is removed but appears on the television. Rachel allows herself to be dragged into Samara's monochromatic world.

Finding herself in the bottom of the well Samara died in, Rachel discovers the lid is partially open. She scales the well's walls, pursued by Samara, but escapes by climbing out and pushing the lid shut on Samara, locking her out of her and Aidan's lives.

Wandering through the woods, she comes to the cliff where Samara's adoptive mother Anna committed suicide. Hearing Aidan's voice, Rachel falls off the cliff and falls into the water, returning to the real world and reuniting with Aidan.

