The night before Halloween, a gay couple are making out in a car when a bare-chested killer in a devil mask appears and decapitates them with a sickle.

Halloween finds Eddie at his job as a police technician talking with his police officer sister. He distributes flyers about the murders and dresses in his father's police uniform for a Halloween costume. While distributing the flyers, he meets Jake in a tattoo shop.

Eddie meets with his friends Chaz, Joey, and Tobey, and they head for the West Hollywood Halloween Carnival. They visit the murder scene, where the devil-masked killer appears. They taunt him because they think he is cruising them.

Eddie and his friends enter the carnival, and Eddie sees Jake coming in as well. Eddie leaves to find Jake. Joey sees a man on whom he has had a crush on for weeks entering one of the dance venues. Chaz encourages Joey to talk to the man, but when he does Joey is cruelly turned down. Chaz goes to the restroom with Joey to console him, then waits for Joey outside. Chaz takes ecstasy and leaves when he sees an attractive man walk past. Joey's crush comes into the bathroom and apologizes, leaving Joey ecstatically happy. Just then, the killer emerges from a bathroom stall and decapitates Joey, taking his head as a trophy.

Chaz goes into another dance venue, where the killer catches up with him on the dance floor. In his drugged state, Chaz does not realize that the killer is slashing his torso with the scythe. The killer then decapitates Chaz while the crowd dances on (thinking it is a Halloween gag).

Tobey, drunk and angry that no one is hitting on him while he is in his Halloween drag, spots the killer, who is still carrying Joey and Chaz's heads in trick or treat bags. Tobey pursues the killer, who dismisses him. When Tobey partially removes his drag costume, the killer returns and decapitates him as well.

Eddie finally finds Jake. They go to the first dance venue but find it closed following the discovery of Joey's body. Jake climbs over a tall chain-link fence to retrieve his motorcycle, and Eddie goes after him. On his motorcycle, Jake heads for the exit to circle around and return to Eddie. The killer finds Eddie inside the closed dance venue and attacks him. Eddie locks himself in a shallow chain-link enclosure. The killer slashes at Eddie with his scythe; the tip of the blade just touches Eddie's glass eye. Jake arrives with a police officer, and the killer leaves.

Eddie and Jake give their statements at police headquarters. Jake learns that Eddie wanted to be a policeman like his father, but he had lost an eye in a training accident and having a glass eye means he cannot join the force. The two go to Eddie's place and start having sex. Jake handcuffs Eddie to his bed and searches for condoms. As Jake is returning, the killer stabs him and leaves him for dead. Eddie hears the struggle and calls out. As the killer approaches and Eddie struggles with the cuffs, Jake hits the killer from behind with a baseball bat. Eddie slips a hand out of the cuffs, tends to Jake's wound, and heads off to call an ambulance, but the killer wakes and disables the phone. Eddie runs to the kitchen. He finds a knife but also finds the heads of Joey, Chaz, and Tobey in a closet. Eddie evades the killer and retreats to his bedroom, locking Jake and himself in. As the killer chops at the door, Eddie retrieves his father's gun and some bullets. Eddie pushes Jake onto the fire escape and loads the gun. The killer breaks down the door and attacks Eddie, knocking him out the window and over the fire escape railing. As Eddie dangles from the fire escape, the killer turns toward Jake. Eddie fires the gun, grazing Jake (as Eddie lacks the stereoscopic vision and depth perception to aim well). Eddie fires again, hitting the killer in the forehead.

Jake is taken to the hospital in an ambulance, and Eddie promises to be there when he wakes up. Eddie's sister gloats over the fallen killer, but Eddie realizes the man is still alive. In the final moment, the killer opens his eyes and grins hideously, disclosing that he has Eddie's artificial eye clenched between his teeth.

