Six years after the previous film, Glen, the benevolent living-doll son of Chucky and Tiffany, has a nightmare in which he murders a little girl's parents. In reality, he is living as a dummy for "Psychs", an abusive ventriloquist in England. Glen sees a preview on television of Jennifer Tilly's new horror film ''Chucky Goes Psycho'', which features Chucky and Tiffany dolls rebuilt from their original remains; Glen realizes that he is their son.

Desperate to know his parents, Glen escapes Psychs and tracks the Chucky and Tiffany dolls to a prop room in Hollywood. Glen uses the Heart of Damballa, a voodoo amulet, to resurrect them. Chucky faints upon learning he has a son, but Tiffany is overjoyed. When a special effects technician starts taking Tiffany apart, she and Chucky decapitate him with a wire. Jennifer finds the beheaded body and calls the police. Chucky, Tiffany, and Glen sneak a ride to her home in her limousine.

Having witnessed his parents murder the technician, Glen asks them why they kill, as he feels violence is bad. Chucky and Tiffany are taken aback by the question and don't know how to answer, until Chucky replies that it helps them to relax. On the other hand, Tiffany, feeling parental responsibility, agrees with Glen and forces Chucky to agree to stop killing for the sake of their son; Chucky falsely promises to do so. Jennifer tries to get a role as the Virgin Mary in Redman's directorial debut. After he tells her she is not right for the part, Jennifer invites him to her home, intending to seduce him for the role, much to the chagrin of her agent Joan.

Chucky and Tiffany make plans to transfer their souls into Redman and Jennifer. Tiffany knocks them out and uses a turkey baster to inseminate Jennifer with Chucky's semen, intending to use her baby as a host for Glen's soul. Chucky takes Glen on a car ride {{ndash}} during which they drive Britney Spears' car off the road {{ndash}} to photographer Pete Peters' darkroom. Peters had taken pictures of Tilly kissing Redman and of Chucky masturbating. Glen tries to warn Peters that Chucky is about to attack, but Peters bumps into a shelf and causes a jar of sulphuric acid to fall into his head, accidentally killing him. Chucky is overjoyed, believing Glen did this on purpose, and takes a picture to celebrate, much to the dismay of both Glen and Tiffany.

Jennifer awakens the following morning, realizes that she is pregnant, and claims Redman is responsible. Redman denies this and reveals that he previously had a vasectomy, leaving Jennifer confused. He also tells Jennifer that, in light of her pregnancy, she is fired from his film. Tiffany eviscerates Redman in anger, which Glen witnesses. The next day, Jennifer wakes up to find herself with a full pregnant belly, a consequence of the voodoo magic. Chucky captures Jennifer and her chauffeur Stan to take Redman's place. Jennifer's assistant Joan tries to help her, but she is killed by Glen's murderous twin sister, Glenda, whose soul shares Glen's body and has taken over. Tiffany smacks Glenda to bring back Glen, who is horrified at what has happened.

Jennifer gives birth to twins, a boy and a girl, and Tiffany realizes that both Glen and Glenda can inhabit the two children. Chucky, amidst Jennifer screaming for help along with the crying babies and Tiffany screaming at him to initiate the ritual before the police arrive, has a sensory overload and stops chanting the spell. He has an epiphany: Chucky has finally accepted his circumstances as a living doll and no longer wishes to become human. Disgusted, Tiffany rejects Chucky and decides to take Glen with her. Enraged, Chucky throws a knife at Jennifer to stop Tiffany from leaving him, but Stan jumps in the way to save her. The police arrive, forcing the dolls to flee.

Jennifer is rushed to the hospital. Tiffany drugs Jennifer and begins to possess her, but Chucky breaks in and kills Tiffany with an axe. Devastated, Glen snaps and attacks Chucky, striking him with the axe. Chucky assumes it's Glenda again, but Glen reveals it is actually him, finally able to kill in revenge for his mother's death. Glen shouts at his father, asking if he is finally proud of him, as he dismembers Chucky, who praises Glen for his actions, before being decapitated. Realizing what he has done, Glen suffers an emotional breakdown as Jennifer comforts him.

Five years later, at a birthday party for Jennifer's children, a nanny quits her job because Jennifer's daughter Glenda scares her. Jennifer beats her to death with the Tiffany doll body, revealing that Tiffany was successful in transferring her soul into Jennifer's body. Meanwhile, Glen opens a birthday present to see Chucky's severed arm, which springs up to grab him.

