Terkel is a Danish boy attending 6th grade at a secondary school together with his best friend Jason, who carries an iron pipe with him at all times. One day during recess, Terkel and Jason sit on a bench playing on their Game Boy. They are approached by a man in a green sweater who tells Terkel that he sat on a spider. Terkel shakes it off, saying his jeans can be easily washed. The man, named Gunnar (Justin in the UK dub, Dick Balsac in the US dub) introduces himself as the school's new substitute teacher and promptly leaves. Later during Terkel's Danish class, Gunnar walks in. He informs the class that the previous teacher, Yvonne, has been fatally run over by a car. The class cheers at the news, and Gunnar becomes the new class teacher.

Terkel's parents Beate (Sheila in the UK dub) and Leon get married. During the wedding reception, two bullies from Terkel's school, Sten (Nigel in the English dubs) and Saki, manipulate Terkel into stealing beer for them. When Terkel's short-tempered, alcoholic and violent grand-uncle Stewart Stardust notices, he beats up the bullies. Sten and Saki blame Terkel, and proceed to bully him for it, for which Terkel receives little help. One day an overweight girl in the class, Fede Dorit ("Fat Doris") approaches Terkel with a love letter. Sten and Saki notice, and start teasing the two of them, calling them a couple. Terkel feels conflicted on whether to defend Dorit or to go along with the bullies. He goes with the latter, saying he would never "love that fat cow", and Dorit gets so upset that she commits suicide by jumping out the window on the fourth floor. After this incident, Sten and Saki become much closer to Terkel, with them now respecting him. Terkel's relationship with Jason however, becomes much more strained. Terkel starts receiving multiple death threats both at home and at school. He again receives no help, and he becomes increasingly paranoid about the world around him.

One day, Gunnar takes the class on school trip to the woods to go study salamanders. On the bus there, Sten and Saki invite Terkel to sit down with them. He does so, angering Jason. When in the woods, Terkel tries to reconcile with him, but fails, with Jason calling Terkel a sell-out. Terkel proceeds to sleep in Sten and Saki's tent. Terkel says that Jason has been acting strangely aloof, and Sten tells him that Dorit was Jason's sister. Terkel is terrified, thinking all the death threats were from Jason, as revenge for his sister's suicide. As they go to bed, Terkel finds a dead cat in his sleeping bag and he receives a text message from Jason's phone saying "I'm coming to kill you". Sten and Saki advise Terkel to tell Gunnar, which he does.

Wanting to be safe from Jason, Terkel insists that Gunnar comes with him into the woods where he explains everything. Terkel now feels more secure and calls Jasons phone to tell him he's in safe hands. To his horror, he hears ringing sounds coming from Gunnar's pocket. It turns out Gunnar sent all the death threats and messages as revenge for Terkel sitting on the spider when they first met, even killing his teacher Yvonne just so he could get closer to him. Terkel flees, and a race through the woods commences. Gunnar corners Terkel and tries placing him a chokehold, but Jason knocks him out with a pipe, saving Terkel. As the two reconcile, however. Gunnar resuscitates and tries targeting Terkel again, leading to a fight between him and Jason whilst Terkel tries to get the pipe back. In doing so, however, Gunnar kicks it out of his hands and prepares to kill the two boys, but is then stabbed in the head by the falling pipe, supposedly killing him. Terkel and Jason discuss how they're back together, and Joanna is now involved with Jason, when they're found by a guy in a hockey mask wielding a chainsaw, making the two run for their lives in fear. It's revealed to be the narrator, Arne Nougatgren (Barry Cremone in the English dubs), who tries discussing the story's moral, albeit finding difficulty to remember it. Gunnar, meanwhile, looks up at the pipe in his forehead, indicating he's still alive.

