{{Long plot|date=April 2023}}
Los Angeles 1911: Cyril, an abusive father  finds his daughter Sophia, playing in a room she is not supposed to be in. As punishment, he forces her to bury her four beloved handmade dolls (an African warrior, a German soldier, a porcelain girl, and a samurai) in their backyard, despite her pleas. When Sophia accidentally falls into the doll's grave and breaks her neck, Cyril buries her with the dolls to conceal the accident, unknowingly with his gold pocket watch.

Los Angeles, 2005: the house is now occupied by the Fillbrook family: Nerdy high school freshman Guy (who collects limited edition action figures), his slightly older teenage sister Deedee, and their single father Lester. Lester prepares for a date, instructing DeeDee to babysit Guy while he is out as well as giving them chores: Guy is tasked with yard work while DeeDee is told to clean up the house. While raking, Guy discovers a Samurai's miniature katana sticking up from the dirt and eventually digs up the Samurai doll himself. Before Lester leaves, DeeDee catches him staring hypnotized at a gold pocket watch, which he says he found in the backyard. Once he leaves, DeeDee invites her friends, promiscuous party girl Olivia and shy Terri over to party. Olivia secretly invites two boys, Tom and Rich, who regularly bully Guy. Guy agrees to keep the party a secret after Terri is nice to him away from the others and they discuss action figures.

The boys ambush Guy in his room once they arrive, insult him, tie his hands up, and break one of his precious action figures before leaving to party with the girls. This angers Sophia's spirit which possesses the samurai doll, resurrects the other buried dolls and puts Guy (whose hands are still tied) in a trance-like state.

DeeDee takes Tom upstairs to have sex after everyone (except Terri) smoke and drink. She handcuffs Tom and begins to take his clothes off before going to a closet to grab “something else”. While she is searching her closet, the German Soldier enters the room and stabs Tom in the crotch with his elongated pickelhaube. Hearing his screams, DeeDee tries to help him while calling downstairs for help. Downstairs, the music is too loud for Olivia to hear who is dancing by herself after Rich refused her advances. Terri insists on cleaning up before Lester returns home and Rich, wanting to have sex with Terri, offers to help her clean. She refuses him and goes upstairs to find Guy. Olivia goes upstairs to DeeDee and Tom, who has bled out, when the German Soldier, who is equipped with a tiny Luger, begins shooting at them. They run downstairs in time to see Ooga Booga standing on a table of a heavily intoxicated Rich. The doll stabs Rich's eye with his spear then slices his throat, killing him.

Upstairs, Terri finds Guy and frees him when the Samurai tries attacking her but stops when Guy commands it to. They make their way downstairs where DeeDee and Olivia are trying to get her cell phone from the porcelain girl doll. The doll, whose face is cracked open in a jagged smile, attacks Olivia biting her face and hand and DeeDee starts hitting it with a fire poker when Sophia possesses Guy. While possessed, he protects the dolls and calling himself Sophia. He knocks over a vase just as his father walks through the front door, mirroring the first scene of the movie when Cyril finds Sophia in the forbidden room. Lester is seemingly hypnotized by Cyril's watch into acting like Cyril and starts berating Guy/Sophia. The dolls all attack Lester at once which snaps him out of his trance. He calls out to Guy which seems to break Sophia's possession over him. Guy gathers the dolls and insists they bury them again to put Sophia's spirit at rest, which they do immediately. As the girls stand together looking at the dolls in the hole, Guy slips behind a stone pillar and the camera slowly follows him around the corner, revealing a zombified Sophia staring back at the viewer.

