On their way to a football game, Carly, her boyfriend Wade, her brother Nick, and their friends Paige, Dalton, and Blake set up camp for the night in a wooded area. A stranger in a pickup truck arrives, then leaves after Nick smashes one of his headlights. The next morning, Wade discovers his car's fan belt is broken; a local man named Lester offers to drive Wade and Carly to the nearby town of Ambrose while the rest of the group head to the game.

In Ambrose, Carly and Wade meet a man named Bo who offers to sell them a fan belt and drive them back to their car after he is finished attending a funeral. They visit "Trudy's House of Wax" while they wait, a wax museum which is the central feature of the ghost town. They eventually follow Bo back to his house to get the fan belt; Carly waits in his truck while Wade goes inside to use the bathroom. Wade is attacked and knocked unconscious by Bo's twin brother Vincent, who wears a wax mask to cover the facial disfigurement he has from where they were once conjoined. When Carly notices Bo's truck has a broken headlight, she flees from the scene, chased by Bo who catches her and takes her down to the gas station cellar. Meanwhile, Vincent covers Wade's body in molten wax.

Realizing they won't arrive at the game in time, Paige and Blake return to the campsite while Nick and Dalton arrive in Ambrose to look for Carly and Wade. When Carly attempts to call for help, Bo cuts off her fingertip. She manages to get Nick's attention who fends off Bo and then frees Carly, while Dalton finds Wade as part of the museum, trapped in a wax coating. Dalton tries to peel the wax from Wade's face, inadvertently removing his skin in the process. Vincent then ambushes Dalton and slashes off a section of Wade's face, causing him to die of shock, before decapitating Dalton. 

While searching the town for help, Carly and Nick realize all of the wax figures are actually the wax-coated corpses of visitors. Back at the campsite, Vincent kills Blake and chases Paige into an abandoned sugar mill, where he kills her with a metal pipe through her forehead. Bo and Vincent chase Carly and Nick into the House of Wax. Nick unintentionally starts a fire in the workshop, causing the building and the figures inside to start melting. Bo and Nick battle and Nick is stabbed in the leg before Carly beats Bo to death with a baseball bat. Vincent chases Carly to the top floor where she tries to reason with him over his brother's treachery and, with Nick's help, is then able to stab him in the back. A dead Vincent falls through the floor and lands on top of Bo's corpse while Carly and Nick escape as the building melts to the ground.

The next morning, the police arrive and report that Ambrose had been abandoned for ten years since the sugar mill shut down. As Nick and Carly are driven away in an ambulance, one of the chief officers is told that the Sinclairs didn't have two children, but three. The ambulance containing Nick and Carly passes by Lester, who waves them goodbye while smiling.

