Young-eon (Kim Ok-bin), the top singer at an all-girls school, is murdered by a music sheet cutting her throat in the opening scene. The next day her ghost returns, but nobody can see or hear her spirit except her friend Seon-min (Seo Ji-hye), who can only hear her. The two attempt to find out what happened to Young-eon, as her memory is fractured. Seon-min begins speculating that the music teacher must have killed Young-eon. Young-eon begins to have flashbacks about her past and about the time when she was murdered.

Seon-min befriends a strange and lonely girl at school named Cho-ah (Cha Ye-ryun), who can hear the voices of the dead, and she decides to help the two. Meanwhile, the music teacher kills herself. Seon-min begins to doubt what Young-eon says about her past after Cho-ah tells her that ghosts only remember what they want to, meaning Young-eon's memory may be incorrect. Young-eon's body is found in on top of the elevator.

Young-eon learns that if Seon-min forgets about her, nobody will be able to hear her, and she begins to have increasingly disturbing and bizarre flashbacks about her mother’s suicide, which Young-eon carelessly encouraged her to go through with while lacking understanding of the consequences of her actions. She meets Hyo-jung, another ghost who she has conflicting memories about.

It turns out that Young-eon had previously had a rivalry with Hyo-jung due to their similar voices and began to wish that the teacher was dead in order to cause Hyo-jung, who was in love with the teacher, to quit music, and that in an intense confrontation the two had actually killed each other. Seon-min, after learning this, thinks Young-eon should move on and be at peace but Young-eon is angered by her statement, since she wants nothing more than to live again. Young-eon flies into a rage and kills Cho-ah and takes over Seon-min's body. She then walks alongside Seon-min's mother, talking about how, as soon as she is old enough, she will learn to drive, replicating a conversation she had had with her mother before her mother committed suicide.

A scene during the credits shows Cho-ah shouting in frustration, but as she is voiceless, no sound comes out.

