Circa 10,000 BC, a hunter-gatherer tribe, called the Yagahl, live in the Ural Mountains and survive by hunting manaks. The tribe, led by a hunter who has killed a manak single-handedly and earned the White Spear, venerates Old Mother, an elderly Neanderthal with shamanistic powers. The manaks begin to dwindle, and the village chief finds a young girl named Evolet, who had survived a massacre of her village, perpetrated by what Old Mother calls "four-legged demons," who will come when "the Yagahl go on their last hunt." She prophesies that whoever kills the leader of the "demons" will win both Evolet and the White Spear, becoming the next village chief, and saving everyone from starvation. The tribe believe that the demons are manaks and set out to hunt the herd leader; however, the current chief does not trust the prophecy and leaves to find another way to save his people faster. He entrusts the White Spear, his young son D'Leh, and the true purpose of his quest to his friend Tic'Tic. The rest of the tribe, including D'Leh's rival Ka'Ren, believe that D'Leh's father was a coward who fled, and they mock D’Leh as a result. D’Leh and Evolet find comfort in each other and fall in love over time. 

Years later, when the manaks finally return, adult D'Leh hunts them with the men of his tribe under Tic'Tic's leadership. He manages to kill one by accident, inadvertently winning both the White Spear and Evolet. The village believes Old Mother's prophecy is coming true, but D'Leh is consumed by guilt for not having earned the White Spear fairly. After speaking with Tic'Tic, he gives up the White Spear, forfeiting his marriage to Evolet, who walks away, disappointed with him for "giving her up." The next day, horse-mounted slavers attack the camp. The warlord, taken by Evolet’s beauty, kidnaps her, enslaves the able-bodied, and kills those who fight back, leaving very few survivors. They realize the prophesied "four-legged demons" are the slavers on horseback. D'Leh, Tic'Tic, Ka'Ren, and a young boy, Baku, set out to rescue their fellow Yagahl as Old Mother follows their journey in spirit. During an attack on the slavers by terror birds, Evolet is recaptured along with Ka'Ren and Baku, and Tic'Tic is wounded. While hunting, D'Leh falls into a pit, where he helps free a trapped Spear-Tooth, asking it not to eat him, before also escaping. Tic'Tic recovers and they find their way to a village of sedentary farmers and learn of a prophecy from the Naku, another tribe: whoever can speak the language of the "Spear-Tooth" will help free their people. D'Leh realizes the prophecy is about him when the Spear-Tooth he rescued arrives to save him from the initially hostile Naku, who then offer D’Leh and Tic’Tic food and shelter upon seeing their prophecy unfold. They also learn that D'Leh's father was a guest of the Naku until the slavers captured him. Tic'Tic finally reveals to D'Leh that his father did not abandon the tribe. Rather, he set out to save it, but let the others believe he had fled to prevent them from following him.

Several tribes form a coalition to defeat the slavers, with D'Leh as their leader. They find the ships holding Evolet and their loved ones, but fail to reach them before they cast off. They set out to follow on foot through the surrounding desert. The war party nearly dies out while journeying, but D'leh learns to use the North Star to navigate the dunes. On the other side of the desert, they discover an advanced civilization, under the iron fist of the "Almighty," who is feared as an untouchable god-king. Here it is discovered that the kidnapped tribesmen along with some manaks are used as slave labor to build pyramids. That night, the warlord attempts to assault Evolet, only to be arrested by the Almighty's priests when they find he has taken her without permission. One night, D'Leh and Tic’Tic sneak into the slave cages. There, D’Leh learns of the Almighty and the fate of his father, who perished as a slave. The party is spotted by the guards, who are killed by Tic'Tic before he succumbs to his wound. Meanwhile, the Almighty's priests believe that Evolet is destined to kill the Almighty, based on the whip scars on her hands matching the stars they call the "Mark of the Hunter," and an ancient prophecy foreseeing their civilization's downfall. The Almighty deduces that Evolet is merely the herald of the true Hunter, which leaves him and his priests unsettled. D'Leh starts a rebellion among the slaves, killing many of the Almighty's forces, though Ka'Ren ends up sacrificing himself in the process as D'Leh eventually starts a manak stampede. 

The Almighty threatens to kill Evolet if they do not abandon their rebellion. D'Leh feigns acceptance, but easily kills the Almighty with the White Spear, breaking his illusion of godhood. During the ensuing battle, Evolet is killed by the warlord, who is then killed by D'Leh. Devastated, he holds Evolet in his arms as she dies, but her life is restored in exchange for Old Mother’s, who dies having fulfilled her final duty. With the Almighty dead and his civilization destroyed, the Yagahl bid farewell to the other tribes and return home with seeds collected by D’Leh’s father, given to them by the Naku, to start a new life.

