In 1957, Soviet agents led by Irina Spalko kidnap American archeologist Indiana Jones and his partner George "Mac" McHale. They infiltrate "Hangar 51" in Nevada and use Indy to locate an alien corpse from the Roswell incident. Indy locates the corpse before being double-crossed by Mac, but escapes to a nearby model town at the Nevada Test Site, minutes before an atomic bomb test. He survives the blast in a lead-lined refrigerator from one of the town's mock houses before being rescued and interrogated by the FBI.

Returning to Marshall College, Indy has been placed on an indefinite leave of absence. Young greaser Mutt Williams approaches Indy and informs him that his former colleague, Harold "Ox" Oxley, found a crystal skull in Peru before being abducted alongside Mutt's mother. Soviet agents attempt to capture them, but the two escape and travel to Peru. There, they find carvings made by Ox which lead the pair to the grave of Francisco de Orellana, which contains a genuine crystal skull. Leaving the grave, the two are captured by the Soviets and taken to a camp in the Amazon. They are reunited with an addled Ox and Mutt's mother, Marion Ravenwood, who informs Indy that Mutt is his son.

Irina tells Indy that the skulls are alien in origin and from the mythical city of Akator. Indy has a brief telepathic connection to the skull, which commands him to return it to Akator. Indy realizes that Ox is attempting to communicate through automatic writing, discovering a route to the city. While en route to Akator, Indy retakes the skull from the Soviets and escapes from them alongside Marion, Ox, Mutt and Mac, who claims to be a double agent. Indy and his companions locate a rock formation which leads them to Akator, evading the city's guardians and reaching a large temple. There, they learn that the aliens were worshipped as deities and enter a chamber containing thirteen crystal skeletons. The Soviets, following transceivers planted by Mac, arrive; Irina places the skull onto the one headless skeleton.

The skeleton awakens and telepathically offers a reward to Irina, who wishes to "know everything" they know. As an interdimensional portal opens above the chamber, the skeletons combine into a reanimated alien, which transfers an overwhelming amount of knowledge into Irina's mind, killing her. Indy, Ox, Marion, and Mutt escape as Mac is drawn into the portal. As the city crumbles, a flying saucer rises from the ruins and departs for another dimension. As Ox regains his sanity, Indy and his party return to the United States where he is reinstated at Marshall College and promoted to associate dean. He and Marion finally marry.

