In a small Arizona town, the new kid, Kyle, finds himself saving one of his classmates, Jason, from a group of bullies and they quickly become friends. 
Jason takes Kyle to the local airport where his uncle Ed works, and they all go on a flight. Thrilled about the adventure, they plan to meet again the next morning at the airport. On their own they check out some planes, first sitting inside a small light aircraft before Jason leads them to a mysterious hangar with a larger plane. While trying out the controls of the silver colored twin-engine airliner, the hangar doors unexpectedly open and the boys immediately hide to avoid getting in trouble. They hope that whoever it is will simply leave shortly so they hide in the rear baggage compartment but to their dismay the plane gets started and heads for takeoff. Jason sneaks a peak to see who is on board and is startled to see that one of the men has a gun. At a stopover at an unknown airport, a small bag gets placed into the boys' compartment. The plane takes off again and after a while the boys discover the bag contains a bomb. They burst into the cabin to report their discovery but are shocked to see that the plane is empty. Kyle throws the bomb out of the door while Jason gets in the cockpit to maneuver the plane away from a mountainside. Together they then manage to safely land the aircraft. The two are regarded in the news as heroes, but their troubles have now caught up to them. Jason and Kyle soon realize that they are embroiled in a criminal effort to steal millions of dollars from the mob. In the process of staying one step ahead of gangsters, they find their courage to come out on top. They are taken to a mansion where they had a gunfight with the owner Angelo Esposito. There they also meet Angelo’s brother Silvio and his partner Lenny Drake, who are secretly the two men that were in the plane. After Angelo thanks the boys for saving his plane, he orders Silvio and Lenny to take them home. 

On the way, Jason speaks through Kyle’s walkie talkie which caused Lenny to hear it from the walkie talkie he took from the plane which was Jason’s and attempted to shoot them with his gun. However, he is stopped by Silvio and is forced to step out of the car. Silvio berates Lenny for his lack of intelligence and that he betrayed Angelo just for the money. Lenny shoots Silvio and starts a chase with the boys which ends with Kyle getting captured by Lenny. 

Lenny orders Jason to meet him at the hangar in 15 minutes, otherwise, he would kill Kyle. When Kyle and Lenny reach the hangar, they meet Ed, and Lenny orders him to get in the plane, which Ed complies to. Jason made it to the hangar and got in the plane in the nick of time before it took off. Meanwhile, Silvio tells Angelo that Lenny shot him and thanks him for looking after him before succumbing to his injuries.

Lenny orders Ed to fly high enough for him to escape with the money. When Kyle tells Lenny that Angelo would punish him, Lenny attempts to throw Kyle out of the plane. Ed turns the plane to prevent Lenny from doing that. Lenny tries to shoot Ed, but Kyle stops him. This gives Ed enough time to beat up Lenny, while Jason takes control of the plane. When Kyle threw the gun to Ed, he and Lenny fight over it. During the fight, Kyle throws the money out of the plane, much to Lenny's frustration; Kyle suddenly slipped out of the plane. Ed beats up Lenny and tells Jason to get the parachute, and they both jump out of the plane.

Ed puts on the parachute and Jason holds on to him. Ed manages to save Kyle from falling and they land safely. Angelo then comes in a helicopter and asks if Kyle and Jason are all right, while Lenny, still on the plane, crashes into a mountain and the explosion kills him. Angelo then asks Kyle and Jason where Silvio is. When they reach Silvio, they found out he already died from his injuries. Jason returns home and his grandpa gives him one of his medals for his bravery.

Meanwhile, one of the bullies was busy fixing his car, until two of Angelo’s guards named Manny and Sal, picked him up and threatened him. Angelo gives Kyle and Jason a new plane as their wish, and they, along with Ed and Kyle's mom, Samantha, fly off into the sunset.

