In 1931, two sisters{{snd}}14-year-old Molly and 8-year-old Daisy{{snd}}and their 10-year-old cousin Gracie live in the Western Australian town of Jigalong. The town lies along the northern part of one of the fences making up Australia's rabbit-proof fence (called Number One Fence), which runs for over one thousand miles.

Over a thousand miles away in Perth, the official Protector of Western Australian Aborigines, A. O. Neville (called Mr. Devil by them), signs an order to relocate the three girls to the Moore River Native Settlement. The children are referred to by Neville as "half-castes", because they have one white and one Aboriginal parent. Neville's reasoning is portrayed as: the Aboriginal people of Australia are a danger to themselves, and the "half-castes" must be bred out of existence. He plans to place the girls in a camp where they, along with all half-castes of that age range, both boys and girls, will grow up. They will then presumably become labourers and servants to white families, regarded as a "good" situation for them in life. Eventually if they marry, it will be to white people and thus the Aboriginal "blood" will diminish. As such, the three girls are forcibly taken from their families at Jigalong by a local constable, Riggs, and sent to the camp at the Moore River Native Settlement, in the south west, about 90&nbsp;km (55 miles) north of Perth.

While at the camp, the girls are housed in a large dormitory with dozens of other children where they are strictly regimented by nuns.  They are prohibited from speaking their native language, forced to pray, and subject to corporal punishment for any infractions of the camp's rules.  Attempts at escape are also harshly punished.  During an impending thunderstorm that will help cover their tracks, Molly convinces the girls to escape and return to their home.

thumb|150px|left|Map of the [[rabbit-proof fence showing the trip from Moore River to Jigalong]]

During their flight, the girls are relentlessly pursued by Moodoo, a tracker from the camp.  They eventually find their way back to the rabbit-proof fence, which will lead them toward their home.  They follow the fence for months, just barely escaping capture several times.  Neville spreads word that Gracie's mother is waiting for her in the town of Wiluna. The information finds its way to an Aboriginal traveller who "helps" the girls. He tells Gracie about her mother and says they can get to Wiluna by train, causing her to leave the other two girls in an attempt to catch a train to Wiluna. Molly and Daisy soon walk after her and find her at a train station. They are not reunited, however, as Riggs appears and Gracie is recaptured. The betrayal is revealed by Riggs, who tells the man he will receive a shilling for his help. Knowing they are powerless to aid her, Molly and Daisy continue their journey. In the end, after a nine-week journey through the harsh Australian outback, having walked the 2,400&nbsp;km (1,500 miles) route along the fence, the two sisters return home and go into hiding in the desert with their mother and grandmother. Meanwhile, Neville realizes he can no longer afford the search for Molly and Daisy and decides to end it.

