Before the time of the pyramids, a horde of warriors from the East, led by Memnon, invades and conquers the local tribes until only a few remain. No tribe is willing to fight Memnon as they believe he is invincible with his sorcerer by his side. Mathayus, his half-brother Jesup, and their friend Rama, the only three true remaining Akkadians, are hired by King Pheron of the free tribes to kill Memnon's sorcerer for twenty blood rubies. 

The Akkadians sneak into Memnon's camp but are ambushed by guards who were warned by King Pheron's son, Takmet, who pledged allegiance to Memnon and killed his father as proof of his betrayal. Rama is killed by an arrow, Jesup is captured and executed. Mathayus finds Memnon's sorcerer, Cassandra, who predicts battle outcomes for Memnon and has been his prisoner since she was a child. Mathayus is captured and buried up to his neck in the desert to be devoured by fire ants at dawn. Mathayus escapes with help from a fellow prisoner, the horse thief, Arpid, and desires to finish his mission and avenge his brother. 

Mathayus sneaks into Memnon's stronghold, Gomorrah, and enters Memnon's palace with the help of a street urchin. Memnon's sympathetic court magician, Philos, directs Mathayus to the courtyard where Memnon is training. Mathayus tries to shoot Memnon from the watchtower, but instead saves the street urchin from having his hand cut off by Takmet under suspicion of theft. He barely escapes Gomorrah, abducting Cassandra along the way. 

Memnon sends his warrior, Thorak, and a group of guards to kill Mathayus and retrieve Cassandra. He provides Thorak with an arrow tipped with scorpion venom to kill Mathayus. Mathayus detects the following army and rides to confront them, leading them into a nearby cave under cover of a sandstorm. Mathayus kills Thorak's men but he pierced by the poison arrow by a dying Thorak.

Cassandra saves Mathayus via her magic.

Mathayus, Arpid, and Cassandra run into Philos, who escaped Gomorrah and has perfected an explosive powder. However, they are ambushed by the rebels, now under the rule of the Nubian King Balthazar. Though Mathayus defeats Balthazar in a fight and earns his grudging respect and sanctuary, Cassandra informs Mathayus that she has a vision of Memnon and his army slaughtering the entire rebel camp. Furthermore, she explains that if Mathayus faces Memnon, he will likely die.

The next morning, Cassandra returns to Memnon to stall and possibly kill him. Mathayus, with help from Balthazar, Arpid, Philos, and the army of rebels, launches an all-out assault on Memnon's stronghold, facing Memnon personally before he can kill Cassandra. Balthazar takes on Memnon's forces alone and kills Takmet during the battle, thus, avenging King Pheron. The battle continues until Mathayus is shot by a guard, as predicted by Cassandra. As Memnon is about to claim victory, Cassandra kills the guard. Mathayus retrieves his bow and pulls the same arrow that Memnon's guard shot at him from his back. He fires the arrow at the exhausted Memnon, sending him off the roof's edge and into flames where he dies. Philos and Arpid use the explosive powder to destroy the palace's foundation, bringing down Memnon's forces. With the battle over, the remnants of Memnon's army bow before Mathayus, who by their law is proclaimed the Scorpion King.

In the aftermath, Mathayus and Balthazar share a good-natured farewell as the latter returns to his own kingdom. Cassandra tells Mathayus that she sees a period of peace and prosperity coming, but warns him that it will not last forever. Undeterred, Mathayus decides that they will make their own destiny.

