Anarchy 99, a Russian terrorist group, acquires the biochemical weapon "Silent Night", presumed missing since the fall of the Soviet Union. Undercover NSA agent Jim McGrath is assigned to recover the weapon, but is discovered and killed by Anarchy 99 at a Rammstein concert. 

NSA Agent Augustus Gibbons suggests sending someone who lacks ties to the US government, such as Xander "XXX" Cage, an extreme sports professional wanted by the FBI for acts protesting against a California state senator. Gibbons takes Cage into custody, who then passes two field tests, before reluctantly accepting the job after he is told the only other option is prison.

Cage meets the NSA support team in Prague, which includes Czech agent Milan Sova, who's tasked with supervising and, if necessary, deporting Cage. While scouting an Anarchy 99 party, Cage identifies Sova as a police officer to Anarchy 99's leader, Yorgi, earning him favor with the group. Cage asks him about purchasing high end sports cars, and Yorgi's girlfriend and lieutenant Yelena, gives Cage an account number.

Gibbons calls Cage about changes to the plan but is impressed when he gives them information provided by the star-struck Kolya. Tech-specialist Agent Toby Shavers then provides Cage with a special revolver, binoculars that can see through walls and explosives disguised as bandages. 

As Cage attends the car deal he made with Yorgi, Sova attempts to intercede. Using the trick revolver and special effects, Cage fake kills Sova. Having earned Yorgi's trust, Cage joins Anarchy 99.

Yorgi brings Cage back to a castle after a dance party at one of his nightclubs that serves as Anarchy 99's headquarters. Cage, while searching for the biochemical weapon, catches Yelena investigating Yorgi's secret safe. He takes her to a nearby restaurant to discuss the matter and reveals his true identity. 

Sova betrays Cage to Yorgi, so he sends his trusted sniper Kirill to kill him. While watching the pair, Kirill, who is in love with Yelena, warns her. As Cage and Yelena stage a fight, the NSA suddenly appears to capture him, and Yelena is taken back to Anarchy 99.

Cage meets with Gibbons, who demands he return to America as his cover is blown and special forces are planning to siege the castle. He refuses, fearing for Yelena's life and bitter that Sova blew his cover. 

Cage sneaks into Yorgi's castle and follows him into a secret underground lab. Overhearing his plan to launch "Silent Night" from the water-borne drone Ahab; he first tests the weapon on the scientists who developed it, to Cage and Yelena's horror. 

Cage flees the area after killing Kolya. At his hideout, Sova is waiting for him, now with Yorgi. Yelena saves Cage, revealing herself to be an abandoned undercover Russian Federal Security Service agent. Cage relays Yorgi's plans to the NSA in return for Yelena's asylum. 

Against orders, Shavers heavily arms Cage's car, who then parachutes from a plane on a snowboard near Anarchy 99's communication tower. The avalanche he starts destroys the tower but he is captured by Yorgi, who already knew Yelena's identity. As Yorgi prepares to kill them, the special forces attack. Cage and Yelena free themselves, but Yorgi launches Ahab before Cage kills him.

The Czech military prepares to destroy Ahab with airstrikes, though this will release some of the biochemical agent. Cage and Yelena take his heavily modified car, to catch up to Ahab. Cage harpoons and disables the weapon moments before it goes off. 

Cage and Yelena are recovered, and Gibbons follows through on his promises. In the conclusion, the couple is relaxing in Bora Bora when Gibbons contacts him for another mission, but Cage ignores him.

