An armed conflict forces Pedro and Alma Madrigal, a young married couple, to flee their home village in Colombia with their infant triplets Julieta, Pepa and Bruno. The attackers kill Pedro, but the candle Alma is carrying becomes magical through a miracle, repelling the attackers and creating Casita, a sentient house for the family located in Encanto, a magical realm bordered by high mountains.

Fifty years later, a new village thrives under the candle's protection, with its magic granting "gifts" to each Madrigal descendant at the age of five, which they use to serve the villagers. However, Bruno, who was vilified and scapegoated for his gift of seeing the future, disappeared ten years ago. Also, Julieta's youngest daughter, 15-year-old Mirabel, has mysteriously received no gift.

On the evening when Pepa's youngest son, 5-year-old Antonio, is gifted the ability to communicate with animals, Mirabel suddenly sees Casita cracking and the candle's flame flickering, but her warnings go unheeded, as the others see Casita as undamaged. After overhearing Alma praying, Mirabel resolves to save the miracle's magic. The next day, she talks to her super-strong older sister Luisa, who confesses to feeling overwhelmed by her near-constant obligations. Luisa then suggests that Bruno's room, located in a forbidden tower in Casita, may hold the secret to why the magic is being threatened.

Upon entering Bruno's room, Mirabel discovers a cave, and barely escapes with the pieces of a tablet of opaque emerald glass in hand. Outside, Luisa discovers that her gift is weakening, and Mirabel reassembles the tablet and sees a picture of herself with Casita cracking behind her.

Later that evening, Mirabel's oldest sister Isabela, who can make plants and flowers grow at will, is scheduled to be engaged to neighbor Mariano Guzmán. Amidst Mariano's proposal and an awkward dinner, Pepa's daughter, Dolores, who possesses superhuman hearing, reveals Mirabel's discovery to everyone. The night is ruined as Casita begins to crack again and everyone starts to lose control of their gifts.

Amidst the chaos, Mirabel follows a group of rats and discovers a secret passage behind a portrait, where she finds Bruno. Bruno reveals he never left the house, and that the vision he had alternates between Mirabel saving and destroying the Casita, leading him to believe she is the key to the fate of Casita's magic. Not wanting Mirabel to be hurt, he broke the vision's tablet and disappeared. At Mirabel's insistence, Bruno reluctantly conjures another vision that at first resembles the previous one, but then depicts Mirabel embracing Isabela and strengthening the candle.

Mirabel reluctantly apologizes to Isabela, who confesses she does not want to marry Mariano and is burdened by her image of perfection. Mirabel helps Isabela develop her powers and they embrace, but Alma spots them from the village square and rushes back to Casita, blaming Mirabel for causing the family's misfortunes out of spite for not having a gift. Mirabel finally confronts Alma, accusing her of seeing her as a disappointment and disapproving of everyone for not living up to her expectations despite their gifts and efforts. The ensuing argument creates a fissure that splits the nearby mountain and demolishes Casita as the candle extinguishes, leaving the Madrigals powerless. A heartbroken Mirabel runs away from the family, who scramble to find her.

Several hours later, Alma finds a tearful Mirabel back at the river where Pedro died. She explains her backstory and how, determined to preserve the magic, she ignored how her expectations were harming the family and accepts responsibility for her actions. Mirabel and Alma reconcile, and, with Bruno in tow, return to the village and assemble the Madrigals to rebuild Casita, with the townsfolk joining in. Mirabel installs a new doorknob to the main door, restoring the family's gifts and reviving Casita. She and Bruno then join the family for another photo.

