The Druun, mindless spirits that turn every living thing in their path to stone, ravage the prosperous land of Kumandra. Sisu, the last surviving dragon, concentrates her magic into a gem and blasts the Druun away, reviving Kumandra's people but not its dragons. A power struggle for the gem divides Kumandra's people into five separate chiefdoms called Fang, Heart, Spine, Talon, and Tail, corresponding to their placement along a gigantic dragon-shaped river.

Five hundred years later, Chief Benja of the Heart tribe retains possession of the gem and trains his young daughter, the warrior princess Raya, to protect it. Believing Kumandra can be reunited, Benja holds a feast for all five tribes. During the feast, Raya befriends Namaari, the princess of the Fang tribe, who gives her a dragon pendant. Trusting Namaari, Raya shows her the gem's chamber, but Namaari betrays her as part of a plot to help Fang steal the gem. After being alerted to the attack, Benja and the other tribes arrive and start fighting over the gem, breaking it into five pieces in the scuffle. The gem's destruction creates a fissure that releases the Druun once more, quickly overtaking the Land of Heart. As the tribe leaders each steal a piece of the gem and flee, Benja notices that water repels the Druun and saves Raya's life by throwing her in the river before being turned to stone.

Six years later, Raya treks across Kumandra, searching for Sisu to have her create another gem and banish the Druun once more. She manages to summon her in Tail, where Sisu admits she did not create the gem but wielded it on behalf of her four siblings, who all contributed their magic to the gem. Raya and Sisu resolve to take back the four pieces of the gem, reassemble it, and use it to banish the Druun and restore those who were turned to stone.

Raya and Sisu travel across the realm, reclaiming pieces of the gem and making new friends: the young restaurateur Boun from Tail, the baby con artist Little Noi and her three songs from Talon, and the warrior Tong from Spine, all of whom have lost loved ones to the Druun. Namaari pursues Raya, hoping to gain the gem shards for the Fang tribe. Each gem shard they acquire blesses Sisu with one of her siblings' magical powers. Raya, not fully trusting their new companions, insists Sisu remain disguised as a human, but she reveals herself to save Raya from Namaari at Spine. At Fang, Sisu persuades Raya to propose an alliance with Namaari rather than steal the final shard. As a gesture of trust, Raya returns the pendant Namaari gave her years ago. Namaari, torn between her responsibility to Fang and her wish to help defeat the Druun, threatens them with a crossbow. Sisu tries to calm Namaari, but Raya attacks with her whip sword after seeing Namaari's finger on the trigger, causing the crossbow to fire and kill Sisu; her death drains all the water away, allowing the Drunn to overrun the realm.

Furious by Namaari’s actions, Raya pursues her and finds her grieving the petrification of her mother, and they fight while Raya's companions use the gem pieces to evacuate the people of Fang. Raya prepares to kill Namaari but stops when Namaari reminds Raya of her role in Sisu’s death due to her inability to trust others, and they go to aid the others. As the Druun gain on her group, Raya remembers how trust allowed Sisu to save the world. She urges the others to unite and reassemble the gem, showing her faith in Namaari by handing over her gem piece and allowing the Druun to turn her into stone. Boun, Tong, Noi, and the ongis follow suit, and Namaari reassembles the gem before being petrified as well. This unleashes a shockwave that spreads throughout Kumandra, vanquishing all the Druun and conjuring up a magical rainstorm that revives everyone. It also revives the dragons, who later revive Sisu. The group reunites with their loved ones; the tribes and dragons gather at Heart to unify as Kumandra once again.

