In 1165,<ref>{{Cite web|title=Vesemir Kills a Leshy|url=https://www.witchernetflix.com/en-gb/vesemir-kills-a-leshy|access-date=2021-12-13|website=www.witchernetflix.com}}</ref> the witcher Vesemir saves a noble child from a leshen in a forest in Kaedwen. Before dying, the creature says something in an archaic elven dialect to Vesemir, leading him to think it was under someone's control. Vesemir is visited by the elf Filavandrel, who thinks the leshen was controlled by Kitsu, one of many elven girls who have gone missing. Meanwhile sorceress  Tetra Gilcrest tries to convince the Kaedwani king to wipe out the witchers, but Lady Zerbst, another courtier, is sympathetic to the witchers and speaks in their favor.

Vesemir reminisces about his youth when he, along with his best friend Illyana, were servants for a noble whose mistress was saved from a mahr by a witcher named Deglan with Vesemir's help. Enticed by promises of coin and riches, Vesemir traveled to Kaer Morhen and underwent the training and mutations to become a witcher.

In the present day, Vesemir and another fellow witcher, Luka, are arrested for killing two knights in a bar fight. Lady Zerbst persuades the king to send Vesemir along with Tetra to rid the forest of Kitsu. She personally delivers the mission order to Vesemir who recognizes her as the now 70-year old Illyana. Vesemir and Tetra set out and she tells him the story of a young sorceress wrongfully killed by a witcher as part of a con, and that she is convinced that all witchers are corrupted. They find Kitsu, mutated and now able to cast powerful illusions, and fight her basilisk. They kill the monster, but Kitsu escapes.

Following Kitsu, the pair come across an old and abandoned elven school where they find the bodies of the other missing female elves. They rescue the captured Filavandrel, who explains that Kitsu tried to replicate the experiments that were done on her, and they come to the conclusion that witchers were responsible, creating new monsters to keep them in business. Vesemir surmises that the monsters he encountered were probably created in Kaer Morhen and leaves to confront Deglan. As he departs, Tetra destroys Kitsu's den, finds Kitsu later surveying the destruction, and blames the witchers. Back at court, she likewise tells the king of the witchers' responsibility in the recent monsters attacks and is given authorization to lay siege to Kaer Morhen. The King has Luka wrongly executed despite Lady Zerbst's protests. She then escapes to warn the witchers.

Deglan admits to Vesemir to creating the monsters, including Kitsu, to protect their way of life and are alerted by Illyana of Tetra's assault. Tetra and the local townsfolk attack Kaer Morhen with Kitsu and her monsters. Illyana helps the witcher recruits flee into the mountains. Vesemir confronts Tetra, who has captured the mages and is holding them hostage in the basement. Kitsu arrives and plunges Vesemir into an illusion where he married Illyana and had a family. However, Vesemir is able to break out of the illusion and engages in a fierce battle with Tetra and her forces. He seemingly kills Tetra and Kitsu, only for it to be revealed as another illusion. He had instead mortally wounded Illyana and killed the mages, meaning that the art of creating more witchers died with them.

Tetra reveals she is the daughter of the sorceress killed by the swindling witcher from her story before being killed by a dying Deglan. He asks Vesemir to find the recruits and make them into "better men" before succumbing to his wounds. At the behest of Illyana, Vesemir allows Kitsu to flee, and he carries a dying Illyana from the burning castle. Vesemir takes Illyana to a lake, where she always dreamed of living by. The two share a brief moment before she peacefully passes away. He then sets out and catches up to the recruits, including a young Geralt, taking them under his wing as the last batch of witchers.

