Four women have participated in their monthly book club for 40 years, bonding over the suggested literature, and have become very good friends. One day, as they read ''Fifty Shades of Grey'', they are intrigued by its content. Considering this a wake-up call, they decide to expand their lives and pursue pleasures that have eluded them.

While flying to visit her daughters in Arizona, Diane meets Mitchell and they strike up a relationship – although she is hesitant because her husband died only a year ago and she has not dated in decades. Vivian spends more time with Arthur, but her fear of commitment makes her keep him at a distance. Carol is frustrated with her husband's refusal to have sex with her, and reading the book makes her realize they are missing something. Sharon starts an online dating account to start dating again.

The group goes on to read ''Fifty Shades Darker'' and ''Fifty Shades Freed'' at the book club, while trying to figure out how to solve their problems. Diane's daughters see her as needing them to look after her, continually pressuring her to move to Arizona although she does not want to leave her friends. 

Diane sneaks away to see Mitchell, and when her daughters cannot reach her, they send the police out to find her. On discovering her at Mitchell's, they insist she move into the basement of one of their homes, essentially ending her relationship with him. Eventually, Diane tells her daughters that though she is older, she does not need to be under surveillance. She packs up her belongings and leaves for Mitchell's, where they resume their relationship.

Arthur asks Vivian to commit to being in a relationship and she declines, despite his assurances that he wants her to continue being independent. Soon after he leaves for the airport, Vivian realizes she has made a mistake and goes after him. She misses his airplane, but on returning to her hotel she finds Arthur waiting for her and they rekindle their relationship.

Carol, frustrated that Bruce is refusing to have sex with her, tries various ways to entice him, to which he is oblivious. She eventually spikes his beer with viagra, which angers him as that is not what is causing the problem, and they continue to not have sex. Bruce admits that he has been stressed because he retired, and does not know what to do with himself. They eventually reconcile after dancing together in a fund-raising talent show.

After a few dates with men she meets online, Sharon decides that the scene is not for her. She then gives a speech at her son's joint engagement party with her ex-husband, where she realizes that everyone deserves to be in love and happy. She opens her online dating account again, in the hopes of finding someone.

