In a group chat, Athena Stone, Ted, Richard, Miranda, Julius, Peter, Martin, Mike and Liberty, discuss an upcoming hunt of "deplorables" at a manor.

Later, on Athena's private jet, a flight attendant talks to Richard but is interrupted by Randy, who staggers out from the cargo hold. Ted claims to be a doctor and subdues Randy before Athena kills him.

As the hunt begins, eleven captives consisting of Crystal, Don, Gary, "Yoga Pants", "Target", "Dead Sexy", "Staten Island", "Vanilla Nice", "Big Red", "Trucker" and "Bandana Man" wake up in a forest, with gags locked in their mouths. Crystal leaves while the rest go into a field and a crate, which contains a pig and a cache of weapons. Yoga Pants finds the keys to their gags. A rifle is fired at them, killing Yoga Pants. Bandana Man fights back but is also shot and killed. Dead Sexy falls into a spike pit and impales herself. Trucker steps onto a land mine, instantly killing him. Severely injured, Dead Sexy kills herself. Staten Island, Target, Vanilla Nice, and Big Red escape the killing field by climbing a barbed wire fence. Target is shot with an arrow and subsequently killed with a grenade. The other three find a service station, whose owners tell them they are in Arkansas. They realize their situation's similarity to the "Manorgate" conspiracy theory after discovering each were kidnapped from a different part of the country. 

Big Red eats a poisoned doughnut, and the owners (Miranda and Julius,) kill Staten Island with a shotgun while Vanilla Nice is suffocated with poison gas. They then clean up the station. Crystal arrives and after purchasing cigarettes, notes that they are too expensive for the region, takes the shotgun from under the counter and kills Julius and Miranda.

Inspecting the pickup truck outside and removing fake license plates, Crystal learns she is in Croatia. She also discovers a booby-trap wired to the driver's-side door and warns Gary, a conspiracy theorist podcaster. They board a train full of refugees, whom Gary believes to be crisis actors; the train is then raided by Croatian soldiers. When Gary tries to convince them of Manorgate and the refugees' perfidy, refugee "Crisis Mike" admits that he is indeed one of the hunters but the other refugees are innocent. The raid was unplanned, and he offers a head start for Gary's cooperation. Gary wrests a grenade from Mike and uses it to kill him. Crystal is taken to a refugee camp where she meets Don. Oliver, an envoy from the Croatian U.S. Embassy, arrives to extract them but during the drive Crystal becomes suspicious of his comments, kicks Oliver out of the car and runs him over.

She and Don find Gary's body in the trunk with a box marked "bribe money" and a map. Crystal tells Don the story of "the Jackrabbit and the Box Turtle", in which the Jackrabbit kills the Box Turtle after losing a race with him.{{efn|name=fn2}} At Oliver's intended destination, Crystal kills Howard, Ted, Martin, Peter, Liberty, and injures their tactical consultant Sgt. Dale. Athena calls out to Don via radio, asking if he killed Crystal. Don refuses to disarm aiming his gun at Crystal, who kills him. She tortures Sgt. Dale to get Athena's location - revealing during their exchange that she previously served in Afghanistan - then kills him. In reality, Athena's group text exchange was a joke. However, it was leaked on the internet, creating furor over "Manorgate". Subsequently, the group's participants, whose careers were ruined, decide to make Manorgate a reality and abduct those responsible for spreading the conspiracy theory.

Athena had insisted that Crystal be included after seeing a social media post from Crystal that offended her. When they confront each other, Crystal claims that Athena has confused her with another woman from the same city, with a differently spelled middle name. The two fight and impale one another on the blades of a food processor; Athena dies, but Crystal sees a jackrabbit near the body and regains some strength. She cauterizes her wound, takes Athena's clothes and bag, and leaves on her jet, talking to the same flight attendant from the start of the film.

