Three years after her family's death in a plane crash, Stephanie Patrick has become a drug-addicted prostitute in a London brothel. She is approached by journalist Keith Proctor, who believes the plane crash was a terrorist attack that was covered up by the government. 

Stephanie leaves the brothel to live with Proctor and studies his research on the crash, which suggests that it was caused by a bomb made by a postgraduate engineering student named Reza, who attends university in London. Stephanie buys a black market gun and finds Reza in the university cafeteria, but cannot bring herself to shoot him. He mocks her and leaves, while also stealing her bag, which contains documents linked to Proctor. Hours later, she finds Proctor murdered in his apartment.

Through Proctor's notes, Stephanie discovers his source is disgraced MI6 agent Iain Boyd, whom she finds living in seclusion in Scotland. Boyd tells her Reza has vanished after her confrontation with him, and he reluctantly agrees to train her to hunt him down. 

Boyd says Reza is a bombmaker hired by a terrorist known as U-17, who carried out the bombing at the behest of an Islamist cleric who was later killed in a drone strike. The plane was downed to assassinate liberal Muslim reformer Abdul Kaif; Kaif's father Suleman funded Proctor's investigation into the crash. Stephanie assumes the identity of Petra Reuter, an assassin killed by Boyd whose body was never found.

Boyd sends her to Madrid to meet ex-CIA agent Marc Serra, who seemingly agrees to help. Stephanie asks Suleman to finance her mission, promising to avenge their son; he refuses, being unaware of Proctor's death and believing Proctor had extorted them. Kaif's mother Alia offers her the money. 

Stephanie assassinates several of the bombing conspirators. Serra tells her that U-17 is Reza himself. She tracks him to the South of France where he is preparing a bus bombing and, after a struggle on the bus, she leaves him to die as his own bomb explodes. She realizes that Serra has been U-17 all along and was using her to kill all connections to him. She kills Serra with a syringe at his home, before visiting Alia to report her mission a success.

Boyd meets Stephanie in London and warns her to disappear, as MI6 have offered to take him back if he can eliminate the newly resurgent "Petra". Stephanie, having found peace, walks away.

