Gaz, Nathan, and Terry have decided to break into the home of  Dr. Richard Huggins and his wife Ellen, as it's in the countryside and is said to have a very large safe full of cash. Nathan's girlfriend Mary complicates matters when she arrives to retrieve her car to go to work, but she is persuaded to come along. She enters the house after the boys fail to access the safe, as she had been waiting for a long while.

Once inside, she tells Nathan that she's pregnant. When the Hugginses return, the boys tie the couple up and try to threaten them into opening the safe. In the process Richard recognizes Nathan and Terry from when they were children, causing Nathan to become reluctant to continue the theft. In an attempt to take control Gaz picks a fight with Nathan and stabs him. He then ties up Ellen and tries to hurt her with a circular saw after Richard lies about the combination to the safe twice, only for Mary to kill him with a sledgehammer. As she and Terry untie the couple, Ellen seems to recognise Mary.

Richard tricks Terry and Mary by offering to operate on Nathan and pretending to call for an ambulance. Ellen then secretly drugs Terry, who hallucinates Mary's twin sister Jane, who went missing a few months back and is presumed to have run away. Mary realizes that they've been tricked. Richard tries to persuade her and Terry to drink tea with them, during which they discuss the untimely death of the couple's daughter, Kate, years prior, as well as the mysterious disappearances of numerous teenage girls in the area. Now aware of the danger the couple poses, Mary tries unsuccessfully to escape. She and Terry make it to the garage and try to drive away in a van belonging to the Huggins, only for Terry to shoot her in the back as she puts the van into drive.

As she bleeds out, Richard taunts Mary about her impending death, despite acknowledging that she saved him and his wife from Gaz. He also tells her that he and his wife have kidnapped and imprisoned several girls in their safe, which is actually a vault where they would dress them up as little girls and call them "Kate". It's insinuated that the girls who didn't work out were killed and disposed of. The most recent girl they kidnapped, however, did fit the role. And when Richard opens the vault it's revealed that Mary's sister, Jane, is inside. Mary finally succumbs to blood loss, with the last thing she sees being her long lost sister in chains. As a reward for helping them, the Hugginses imprison Terry inside the vault with Jane.

The film ends with Terry's mother discussing her son's disappearance with the Hugginses, unaware of the couple's involvement and the presence of Mary's freshly buried corpse in the garden, presumably alongside Gaz and Nathan.

