Harold is a religious fanatic who gives his family, consisting of his wife Betty and daughters Maggie and Sarah, an unknown liquid to drink. After revealing it to be poison, Maggie is the only one to become frightened with the thought of dying, and Harold later reveals it was merely a test of faith for a future suicide pact.

The following day, Harold's family is visited by three strangers :  Fisher, Randy, and Luke who ask for help replacing a flat tire. After Harold invites them in, he tells them that his family lives several miles away from civilization without a phone. Offering to help, Harold allows the group to stay at his house for another day, but also throws away their beer and criticizes them for using foul language.

At dinner, Fisher establishes himself as the most respectful of the group and tells Harold's family that he is moving to California from Chicago. After asking to use the restroom, Randy sneaks into Harold's room to snoop around. Harold becomes suspicious and searches for Randy before calling for his family, where they find Randy suffering a seizure.

Harold tells the group that their best option is to stay at his place while Randy recovers, and Maggie begins to grow feelings for Fisher. Anxious about the stay, Luke wakes up at night and spots Harold taking a bath with Sarah. In the morning, Luke also finds that Harold lied about having a car and the group uses its tires to fix their vehicle. While doing so, Fisher shows Maggie the inside of the car, where the pair take an instant photograph together that Maggie keeps.

After departing, the group suffers another flat tire and returns to the house. After going on a rant and accusing Harold of molesting Sarah, Luke is kicked out. Before leaving, Sarah hands Luke a bottle of poisoned lemonade and dies after discovering a spike strip that caused both of their car accidents. At home, Maggie notices that Randy has also died.

Maggie finds a note stating that she is from Nebraska. Fisher also finds several photographs of Maggie and Sarah from the past, where the pair are with other people. Together, Maggie and Fisher realize that Harold and Betty kidnapped the girls as their own after killing their parents. Inside, Betty overhears Sarah and Harold talking about their intimate relationship, and Fisher discovers Randy's body. Harold arrives and knocks Fisher out with chloroform.

At home, Betty commits suicide. Tied up in a basement, Fisher is rescued by Maggie and the pair share a kiss and try to escape, finding a crucified Randy and Luke, before Fisher is shot and killed by Sarah and also crucified. Burning the bodies, Harold says the group served as a sacrifice for god. Discovering Maggie, Harold decides it is time for his family to complete their suicide pact. After handing his daughters a glass of poisoned wine, Sarah willingly drinks it and dies. Maggie, on the other hand, refuses and sees Harold drink from an unpoisoned glass, before hitting him with the wine bottle. Armed with a handgun, Harold searches for Maggie, who cuts his ankles and slashes his neck. The following morning, Maggie looks across the horizon.

