{{Long plot|date=September 2021}}
Halfway through the fictionalized 2000 Champ Car Season, rookie driver Jimmy Bly has already won five races. His brother/business manager Demille seems more concerned with working out endorsement deals and press engagements than racing, putting tremendous pressure upon Jimmy. His success has also drawn the ire of the reigning champion and series points leader Beau Brandenburg, who believes he's not doing as well as he should because of his fiancée Sophia becoming "a distraction". Brandenburg breaks up their engagement and he regains his winning streak at Chicago Motor Speedway.

As Brandenburg returns to form, Jimmy's paraplegic team owner Carl Henry is concerned that he is making more driving errors. He sees parallels to his former driver and Champ Car Champion, Joe Tanto, whom he convinces to come out of retirement to mentor Jimmy. Joe agrees and is brought in to replace Jimmy's teammate, Memo Moreno. To complicate matters, Joe's ex-wife Cathy Heguy is now married to Memo, the driver that Joe replaced. Despite all this, Joe and Memo are still friends.

Joe's comeback race in Canada is extremely close, with Jimmy leading and Brandenburg a close second. Jimmy can't seem to pull away from him, so Carl orders Joe to pit and holds him there until the leaders are about to come by, despite Joe's protests. At the last second, Joe leaves the pit just in time to block out Brandenburg, allowing Jimmy to win the race. Demille takes a dislike to Joe's mentoring, implying that Joe should just act as a blocker. At the same time, Jimmy starts to form a bond with Sophia, and they start hanging out together; their bond grows further when they travel to Japan, where the next race is held. In a pool in Japan, Sophia shows off her synchronized swimming moves to Jimmy. Meanwhile, back in the United States, Joe urges Brandenburg to reconcile with Sophia, while Jimmy's growing bond with Sophia causes him to further lose his form on the track during the next race and results in him crashing out.

At a party in Chicago, where the prototypes of next year's cars are being introduced, Brandenburg and Sophia reconcile, much to Jimmy's disappointment. Sophia apologizes to Jimmy, but he angrily lashes out at her and Brandenburg, then takes one of the new cars and races it out of the convention center. Joe hops into another of the new cars and chases Jimmy down the streets of Chicago, eventually calming him down and bringing him back to his senses after they stop driving. In the coming race in Germany, Carl decides that bringing back Joe isn't getting the results he wants, so he reinstates Memo while making Joe mentor Jimmy from the pit lane.

The next race begins in the middle of the rain, with Jimmy and Brandenburg once again fighting it out for first. Jimmy needs one more win to take the championship, and Memo is instructed to block for him and keep out of his way. However, Cathy convinces Memo to go for the win, and as a result, he collides with Jimmy in a horrific crash that sends him flying into a lake on the far end of the course. Jimmy and Brandenburg dive into the lake and rescue Memo just as a burning tree collapses onto the burning car and ignites the leaking fuel, causing an explosion. This event causes Brandenburg to warm up to Jimmy, telling him he's a good man and that he didn't want to win the championship this way.

Carl, angered by Jimmy's decision to rescue Moreno instead of fighting on for the championship, decides to replace him with Brandenburg for the coming season and negotiates a deal with Demille, who will now represent Brandenburg. Demille tries to get Brandenburg to sign the new contract, but Brandenburg rips it up; Sophia punches Demille in the face for the way he treated her previously. With Memo now hospitalized, Joe is racing again as Jimmy's teammate. Initially, Jimmy is barred from competing due to a foot injury he sustained during the rescue, but Carl finally decides to clear him for the race after he passes Carl's strength test.

At the final race of the year in Detroit, Jimmy and Brandenburg are contenders for the championship. In the final laps, Joe takes the lead but damages his front suspension by avoiding a crash. He can no longer contend for the win and the two leaders pass him on the final lap. Jimmy starts to have a mental lapse, but upon hearing Joe's words of wisdom, he pulls ahead of Brandenburg by just a few inches. Joe's spinning car crosses in third. Jimmy becomes the new champion and celebrates together with Joe and Brandenburg.

