Having been expelled from previous schools due to the lack of control of his powers, Kyung-soo is determined to graduate and attend Volcano High (the last school who will accept him). On his first day, he doesn't fit in due to him being an outsider and the only friends he makes are Shimma and Golbangi, whom the latter warn him of Chae-yi's reputation as Icy Jade.

In another room, Hak-rim is seen using his powers to make a tea based antidote for the principal. On his way to deliver the antidote, Hak-rim is able to prevent a fight between Kyung-soo and Jang Ryang (after the latter hated the smell of Fujian Tofu). Reminding the latter that he must not start trouble, Ryang leaves in anger.

Meanwhile, trouble ensues with Vice Principal Hak-sa who is determined to be principal of Volcano High from the former headmaster. Despite his fears of Jang Ryang, Hak-sa enlists his help to frame famed martial arts student, Hak-rim, for stealing an ancient manuscript that is believed to help end the 17 years of feuding. However, he soon runs into several problems after successfully framing and imprisoning Hak-rim. The principal is not only alive, but is in a happy induced coma and adding to Hak-sa's problems is that the Dark Oxen gang having taken over the school.

Most students begin to believe Kyung-soo framed Hak-rim, despite his denial and maintaining his innocence. However, Chae-yi believes him and tells her friend, Yo-seon that she suspects Ryang of framing Hak-rim. This is confirmed when Ryang shows up with intentions to make her, his queen so they could rule Volcano High together. Chae-yi refuses the offer and Kyung-soo tries to defend her. During a fight with Ryang, Kyung-soo is able to defeat him, but later is injured temporarily from the whole thing when he becomes distracted with his parents' plea to behave himself.

During visitation to Hak-rim, Chae-yi and Yo-seon tells him about the incident with Ryang's involvement in his framing. He soon begins to sense Kyung-soo is their only chance to restore order to Volcano High and asks them to set up a meeting with him.

Realizing that Ryang could hinder his efforts to take control of Volcano High and prevent him from taking the manuscript, Hak-sa calls forth Mr. Ma and his gang known as the Five Teachers to help him retake control of the school. They succeed and begin punishing the students for minor infractions. Kyung-soo tries to avoid being in trouble at all times, afraid of the shame he could bring to his family if expelled one last time. However, Mr. Ma recognizes him from a previous school and this forces him to fight.

One day, Hak-rim and Kyung-soo meet in visitation. Convinced that he may be the students only chance to bring order into the school once more, Hak-rim trains Kyung-soo to master his powers properly. Although Kyung-soo refuses to be involved, he slowly begins to realize the meaning of Hak-rim's warning that he can't escape his fate and must help restore order in the school by finding the said manuscript. He begins to master his powers in the boys shower room and accidentally gets Chae-yi wet. However, by this time, she begins to have feelings for him and vice versa.

Ryang is angered by this, but more so with Hak-sa when he discovers what the vice-principal has done in recruiting the Five Teachers. He tries to remind him of their original deal, but Mr. Ma sends him away. Kyung-soo finally fights Mr. Ma during the climax of the film. After a lengthy battle, he is able to defeat Mr. Ma and kill him. Opening the box, Kyung-soo reveals there is no manuscript to the shock of  Ryang, Hak-sa and the remaining four teachers. However, the students doesn't care because they realized the meaning Hak-rim's words about the manuscript being a metaphor and that he knew Kyung-soo was the one who is able to restore order in the school. Hak-sa eventually loses it and the remaining four teachers willingly abandons him after the loss of Mr. Ma.

With that, the charges against Hak-rim are dismissed and he is set free. The principal is back to normal and is able to run the school again. When he mentions his dreams of the manuscript, the students reveal that they know the truth of Hak-rim's words of it being a metaphor. The principal asks them about it, the students reveal he knew that Kyung-soo was the one destined to restore order to the school because of his abilities. He able to fight Ryang fairly and win without worry of expulsion. Kyung-soo is able to graduate from high school and make his family proud for once. In the end scenes, Kyung-soo poses with the other clubs in photos. Chae-yi notices Yo-seon writing another letter to Hak-rim and realizes she has feelings for him. She soon advises Yo-seon to tell him of her feelings for him soon. She refuses and continues writing more letters. Hak-sa is seen in the same induced coma after his loss of favor.

