In 2005, U.S. Army librarian Joe Bauers is selected for a government hibernation experiment as the "most average individual" in the entire military. Lacking a suitable female candidate, the military hires prostitute Rita by paying off her pimp, Upgrayedd. When the officer in charge is arrested for running his own prostitution ring under Upgrayedd's tutelage, the experiment is hushed up, but by then both Bauers and Rita have already been frozen. Over the next several hundred years, societal expectations and technological advances lead the most intelligent humans to go childless, while the least intelligent reproduce indiscriminately and create increasingly more stupid generations.

Five hundred years later, Bauers and Rita's hibernation chambers, now part of a giant pile of garbage, are unearthed in an avalanche. Bauers crashes into the apartment of Frito Pendejo. He wanders around what was once Washington, D.C., and finds a population that has become profoundly anti-intellectual, speaking only low registers of English and wallowing in overconsumption and low-brow pop culture. Despite advances in technology, infrastructure has largely broken down, and innovations are driven by garish commercialism or extreme simplicity. Believing that he is hallucinating after a year of hibernation, Bauers enters a hospital and realizes the truth. Arrested for not having a bar code tattoo to pay for his doctor's appointment, he is sent to prison after the grossly incompetent Pendejo acts as his lawyer.

Rita resumes her job as a prostitute, but soon realizes that people have become so stupid that they will pay her if she only promises to sleep with them. Bauers is renamed "Not Sure" by a faulty speech-recognition tattooing machine, escapes from jail by telling the guards that he is meant to be released, and finds Pendejo, who reveals that there is a time machine that can travel back to 2005; Pendejo agrees to guide Bauers and Rita to the time machine after Bauers promises to make him rich via compound interest on a bank account he will open in Pendejo's name when he arrives in the past. The three venture through a gigantic Costco store, where Bauers is identified by a tattoo scanner and arrested.

Bauers is taken to the White House and is appointed Secretary of the Interior; as the IQ test he took in prison determined he is the smartest man in the world. President Camacho introduces Bauers to the cabinet and gives him the impossible job of fixing a nationwide food shortage, constant Dust Bowls, and a crippled economy within one week. Bauers discovers that the nation's crops are being watered with Brawndo, a sports drink produced by a company that also owns the FDA, FCC, and USDA. When he arranges for the irrigation system to be replaced with water, Brawndo's stock plummets, causing massive layoffs and riots without any visible improvement to the crops.

Bauers is sentenced to die in a monster truck demolition derby featuring undefeated "rehabilitation officer" Beef Supreme. However, Beef's grossly oversized truck is crushed when it rams into the building's support pillars while trying to enter the arena, and Bauers manages to defeat the other competitors. Rita and Pendejo discover that Bauers' reintroduction of water to the soil has allowed crops to grow, and they steal a TV camera from the arena to broadcast the sprouting crops on the stadium's Jumbotron, prompting Camacho to grant Bauers a presidential pardon. Bauers and Rita decide to stay in the future, and discover that the time machine was just an amusement ride. Following Camacho's term, Bauers is elected president and marries Rita, with whom he has the world's three smartest children. New vice-president Pendejo marries eight women and fathers 32 of the world's stupidest children.

