The film begins with Reggie, wandering in the desert on foot, having returned from wherever he journeyed at the end of the previous film. Reggie is given a ride by a passing motorist who happens to be driving Reggie's Barracuda. He throws the thief out but two spheres suddenly fly by. One sphere kills the thief while the other pursues Reggie. While fending off the spheres, Reggie suddenly awakens in a hospital, much older, in a wheelchair, and suffering from dementia. Mike is with him and they discuss matters of reality relating to Reggie's condition. In an apparent dream world, Reggie meets a woman who mistakes him for a friend. Her car isn't working, so he offers her a lift. They go to a cabin on a farm and Reggie learns that a Bulgarian man, Demeter, also works there. Reggie tells her about his dealings with The Tall Man over the years and she is amazed by his tale. He tries his usual lady wooing but is politely rebuffed. Later, The Tall Man shows up accompanied by his spheres. Reggie dreams of being in a hospital again but it appears to be from the 1860's. Jebediah Morningside, the undertaker/scientist whom The Tall Man possessed, is lying in the bed next to him. Jebediah explains he's near death and has lost many friends. However his demeanor suddenly shifts to The Tall Man and Reggie sees the Lady in Lavender is physically conjoined with him and they warn him that he cannot escape.

The next morning Reggie looks for the lady he picked up, Dawn, but finds that she's been killed by spheres. Reggie equips himself with a shotgun. The spheres force him into a nearby barn. A man wielding an axe confronts him and it is revealed he is Demeter. One sphere kills a horse while another manages to get inside the barn, killing Demeter, before Reggie fights it off. Reggie speaks to Mike again in the hospital. Mike tells him about a new threat looming. Back in his dream, Reggie goes through the woods. Along a path, he encounters a gigantic sphere hovering in the sky and Reggie is back at the hospital again. Reggie alternates between the other world in both his dream and the present time. The Tall Man appears and pontificates how their paths have crossed over time. In 1978 (erroneously stated 1979), Reggie attended a funeral at Morningside Mortuary and from that day onward his life became a nightmare. The Tall Man offers to return Reggie's family if he ceases to meddle in his affairs.

Reggie is next seen in a mortuary, first contending with dwarfs and then The Lady in Lavender appears. She is shot by Reggie and seemingly killed. Continuing on, Reggie goes into a large cave, shooting a dwarf and the place shakes. The Tall Man asks him if he's considered his offer, but when Reggie retaliates, The Tall Man again reminds him his chances are depleting. Reggie wants his friends Jody and Mike back, but The Tall Man recognizes his "loyalty" for his friends as foolishness. In yet another dream sequence which he alternates with the nightmare world, Reggie is strapped to a gurney as armed masked people appear. One is named Chunk and the other is revealed to be the person Reggie knew as Dawn despite her death, but she says her name is actually Jane and she thinks Reggie is delusional. She radios in some people. Reggie fails to convince her they know each other, but she gets him medical attention instead. More dwarfs and gravers arrive and attack but Chunk saves him and gives him a weapon. Dawn and Chunk take Reggie to other members of their group who are fighting The Tall Man. Mike is reunited with Reggie and they escape the hospital. Mike tells Reggie he's been "on ice" for a decade, making it 1998, and that the Earth belongs to The Tall Man now.

In the dream world, Reggie wanders around the hospital hallways, but a nurse orders him back to his room. In the nightmare world, an enemy has grabbed him. A spiked sphere then kills one of the people helping Reggie. Mike visits Reggie at the hospital, and says his dream orientates him. Mike reveals he had a dream too where he was in the desert, looking for Reggie. It turns out Mike still has his connection to The Tall Man even after his cranial sphere was removed. Mike explains how The Tall Man unleashed a plague that caused a worldwide apocalypse on society. Jane is caught by The Tall Man, so Chunk, Mike, and Reggie travel through a dimension fork into his world. On the Red Planet, they confront The Tall Man and his minions but Jane is killed. Chunk, posing as a dwarf next to The Tall Man, blows himself up to destroy him. Back at the hospital, Reggie fights gravers alongside Mike. Jody shows up in the Barracuda, fitted with onboard machine guns, to pick them up. After driving awhile, they decide to head north as The Tall Man is repelled by cold. In the dream world, Reggie seemingly passes away with Mike and Jody at his bedside and the film ends.

During a mid-credits scene, Chunk appears through a dimension fork along a desert road, missing a hand, and meets up with Rocky. Chunk flirts with her, asking if he "has a chance." Rocky teases back saying "there are no other guys around" but then the gang pulls up in the Barracuda and they join them. Many giant spheres are seen in the sky looming over ruined cities, indicating the war with The Tall Man still wages on.

