On her show, talk show host Monica Brown interviews a severely disfigured woman, the sole survivor of a massacre that took place the previous Halloween. Brown mentions that the body of the mysterious killer, known only as "Art the Clown", disappeared from the morgue, suggesting he is still alive. When the disfigured woman insists she saw him die, a man watching the program, revealed to be Art, destroys his TV. He changes into costume and fills a garbage bag with various weapons and knives. Later in her dressing room, Monica talks to her partner on the phone, making disparaging remarks about the interviewee's appearance. The disfigured woman, who'd been eavesdropping, attacks Monica and gouges out her eyes, laughing maniacally.

On Halloween night, two friends, Tara and Dawn, drunkenly leave a party, encountering Art, who follows them to a pizzeria. There, Art makes advances at Tara, unnerving her, before being kicked out by the restaurant owner for smearing his feces over the bathroom walls. The girls leave the pizzeria to discover that one of Dawn's car tires has been slashed, and Tara calls her sister Vicky to come pick them up. Meanwhile Art returns to the pizzeria, killing and mutilating two workers.

While waiting, Tara asks a pest control worker, Mike, to be let into the apartment building he's working in to use the restroom. There, she encounters the Cat Lady, a deluded squatter, who believes the doll she carries is her infant child. Meanwhile, Art attacks Dawn while waiting in her car and chases down Tara inside the apartment building. Art eventually subdues her with a sedative. 

Tara awakens, bound to a chair, to see Art has Dawn suspended upside-down. Art forces Tara to watch as he saws Dawn in half with a hacksaw. Tara escapes and strikes Art with a 2x4, but he produces a gun and shoots her to death. The Cat Lady witnesses this and seeks out Mike for help, only to be dismissed. Art attacks Mike, knocking him unconscious with a hammer. The Cat Lady soon discovers Art cradling her doll, and in a plea for the return of her "child", attempts to show motherly compassion to Art by cradling him.

Vicky arrives to take Tara and Dawn home, but is lured into the basement, where she discovers Art, who has severely mutilated the Cat Lady and is wearing her scalp and breasts. Art chases and corners her into a locker, but turns his attention to Mike's co-worker Will, and decapitates him. Art chases down Vicky, who briefly escapes him but stops upon finding her sister's corpse. Art catches up to her and attacks her with a makeshift cat o' nine tails, but a recovered Mike knocks Art unconscious. The two flee and call 9-1-1, but Art recovers and kills Mike. Vicky retreats into a garage, but Art rams through the door and hits her with a pickup truck, incapacitating her. As she lies unconscious, Art begins to eat her face. The police finally arrive, but Art shoots himself inside his mouth before he can be apprehended. 

After the police discover Vicky is still alive,  Art's body and those of his slain victims are taken to a morgue, where the medical examiner unzips Art's body bag. Art suddenly reanimates and attacks him. One year later, Vicky is released from the hospital after rehabilitation from the injuries inflicted by Art; she is revealed to be the severely disfigured woman from the film's opening scene and thus the events of the entire movie took place that previous year.

