Four young offenders – Tim, Sam, Dwight, and Zeb – and their caretakers – Kate and Jeff – travel to a Yorkshire village called Mortlake to do community service, staying in a little cottage. On their first day they decide to have a drink at the local pub where they meet Jim, the bartender. The next day they go salvage abandoned trains where Tim and Sam are attacked by three inbreds. Jeff tries to scare them away but falls on a metal shard, cutting open his femoral artery.

They go back to the pub to get help, but Jim chops Jeff's head off with a cleaver and traps the others in the cellar. The inbreds take Zeb away and pin him to the ground in a barn. It turns out he's being used for a show for the Mortlakers. Zeb is then taunted and tortured by having asparagus stuck up his nose. They bring in a horse and have it walk around Zeb while the others pick the lock off the cellar door and escape. The horse then crushes Zeb's head, killing him. The others escape while Dwight attempts to defend them, but Dwight is unsuccessful and gets recaptured and used for another show. Dwight gets tied to a chair and has fecal matter pumped inside his body, popping his eyes out and blowing up his stomach. The others run back to the cottage in an attempt to find a map with directions, as well as their cellphones, which Jeff had confiscated and hid.

Kate goes to check the shed but when she opens the door, Jim is standing there with a weapon and a group of inbreds. She locks the door but he shoots the lock and her fingers off. Later, Kate runs outside to distract them in an attempt to save Tim and Sam. She tries to run away but steps on a mantrap. One of the inbreds then amputates her leg with a chainsaw. She tries to crawl away but Jim shoots her dead. Tim checks the basement and finds a load of booze. He then lures the inbreds down into the basement while Sam runs away. They find Tim holding a molotov cocktail. He tries to light it but Jim tells him that the alcohol isn't strong enough to burn and the inbreds kill him. When they find Sam running away outside, they bet on how she'll die. She steps on a landmine and tries not to move, but a ferret crawls up her leg, so she is blown up. The film ends with the inbreds walking back to the pub for a pint.

