In the winter of 1982, an alien spacecraft and a nearby alien body are discovered buried in Antarctic ice by members of the Norwegian research station "Thule". American paleontologist Kate Lloyd is recruited by Dr. Sander Halvorson and assistant Adam Finch to investigate. They fly to Thule in a helicopter with pilots Sam Carter and Derek Jameson, and crewman Griggs. They meet station chief Edvard Wolner, along with his team of Juliette, Olav, Karl, Jonas, Henrik, Colin, Peder, Lars, and Lars' dog.

The body is excavated in a block of ice and returned to the Thule Station. During a party, Jameson sees the alien burst from the ice block. Searching for the alien, the team finds Lars' dog dead. The alien drags Henrik into itself, spattering blood on Olav. The group kills the alien by igniting spilled fuel beneath it. An autopsy reveals that the alien's cells were copying Henrik's. Olav falls ill.

As Carter, Jameson, and Griggs are taking off in the helicopter to take Olav to a medical facility, Griggs transforms into a monstrous creature and attacks Olav, causing the helicopter to crash in the mountains. Kate discovers dental fillings in a bloodied shower and tells the team that the alien can assimilate and imitate its victims and that it is now living among them. Edvard orders the team to drive to the closest base; however, Juliette and Kate want to prevent anyone from leaving. Juliette lures Kate into an abandoned room before transforming and attacking her. Kate escapes and the Juliette-Thing kills Karl. Lars kills the Juliette-Thing using a flamethrower and the team resolve to quarantine themselves until the threat is eliminated.

That night, Carter and Jameson stagger back from the crashed helicopter. Suspected to be alien, they are imprisoned in isolation. As the alien does not assimilate inorganic material, Kate proposes everyone be checked for dental fillings. The test implicates Sander, Edvard, Adam, and Colin, who have no metallic fillings.

Lars is abducted while going to fetch Carter and Jameson for testing. Carter and Jameson break into the main building, shooting Peder dead and puncturing his flamethrower tank, causing an explosion and knocking Edvard unconscious. When brought to the main room, Edvard violently transforms, infects Jonas and Jameson, and assimilates Adam. Kate burns Jonas and Jameson before they can fully transform, then she and Carter burn the Edvard-Adam-Thing before pursuing Sander, who had been assimilated.

The Sander-Thing drives off into the night in a snowcat pursued by Kate and Carter. The spacecraft suddenly activates, separating them. Kate falls into the ship and confronts the monstrous Sander. She kills him with a grenade which shuts down the ship's engines. Kate finds Carter and notices he is missing his earring. Carter indicates the wrong ear so Kate burns the Carter-Thing and moves to the second snowcat before driving away.

The next morning, Thule's helicopter and pilot Matias return. Matias views the ruined station and the husk of the Edvard-Adam-Thing with horror. Colin has committed suicide with a straight razor in the radio comms room, and Lars demands at gunpoint that Matias show his teeth. Lars' dog, thought dead, emerges and runs away. Realizing that the dog is a Thing, Lars orders Matias to give chase in the helicopter.

