After the events in Maine, an unidentified feral woman is the last remaining member of a cannibalistic tribe that has roamed the Northeast coast for decades.{{Efn|As seen in the 2009 film ''Offspring''.}}

Chris Cleek is a country lawyer, who lives with his wife Belle, their two daughters Peggy, Darlin', and their son, Brian. While out hunting, Chris sees the woman, who is bathing and fishing on a creek. The next day, Chris returns with a net in an effort to capture her. Once captured, Chris returns home with her and restrains her in a cellar, then directs his family to participate in "civilizing" her. Over the following days, the Cleek family is revealed to be very dysfunctional. Chris's first attempt to approach the woman results in her biting off and eating his ring finger. Chris orchestrates a violent series of civilizing measures toward the woman.

Chris bathes the woman with boiling water and a high-pressure power washer, causing her extreme pain, and is afterward clothed in a dress Belle sewed. Later that night, Chris rapes the woman while Brian secretly observes through a hole. The next day, Brian also violates the woman with a pair of pliers but is caught by Peggy.

After a series of verbal and physical abuse conducted by both Chris and Brian towards the woman and the family, Belle announces her intention to leave Chris with Peggy and Darlin. In response, Chris knocks Belle unconscious.

Peggy's geometry teacher Ms. Genevieve Raton visits the Cleek residence with the suspicion that Peggy might be pregnant. Chris angrily assumes that Ms. Raton is accusing him of rape and incest, then proceeds to knock her unconscious in response. Chris and Brian tie her up and take her to the barn where he keeps the family dogs. Peggy tries to intervene but becomes a victim of Chris' vicious verbal assault. In the barn, Ms. Raton is attacked by an eyeless girl named "Socket", the Cleek's secret third daughter who behaves like the dogs. Socket kills and consumes Ms. Raton, as Chris and Brian watch.

Peggy releases the imprisoned woman from the cellar. Belle, having regained consciousness, is attacked and killed by the woman. The woman then proceeds to kill Brian with a saw. Chris tries to shoot the woman but is overpowered, the woman then tears his heart out, and consumes it. Afterward, the woman makes her way to the Cleeks' house where she places her hand on Peggy's uterus, confirming that Peggy really is pregnant with Chris' child. The woman then leaves with Darlin' and Socket, making their way to the woods. Peggy watches as they leave and she slowly starts following at a distance.

