The film opens with a couple, Talia and Erik Harson, having sex. Afterwards, Talia walks around the house, not noticing that the motion sensor light outside had turned out. After a shower, Erik finds "you're next" written on the window in Talia's blood; her body is lying dead on the ground. An attacker wearing a lamb mask attacks Erik and kills him with a machete.

Erin accompanies her boyfriend, Crispian Davison, to his family reunion at their vacation home in rural Missouri. Present are Crispian's parents Aubrey and Paul, Crispian's older brother Drake and his wife Kelly, Crispian's younger siblings Felix and Aimee, and their partners, Zee and Tariq, respectively.

During dinner, someone shoots crossbow bolts through the window, one of which hits Tariq in the head and kills him, with another wounding Drake. The survivors discover that their cell phone reception has been jammed. Aimee runs outside for help but runs into a garrote wire which slices her throat, killing her. Erin is briefly attacked by an attacker in a tiger mask in the kitchen, but she fights him off as he escapes through the kitchen door. Paul puts Aubrey to bed, but an intruder wearing a fox mask, who was hiding under the bed, murders Aubrey with a machete, leaving the words "you're next" in blood on the wall.

Kelly discovers Fox Mask, panics and flees the house, going to Erik's house nearby. Upon discovering Erik's corpse, Lamb Mask throws her through the window and kills her by driving an ax into the side of her head. Crispian leaves the house to look for help. Tiger Mask attacks Erin with an ax but she crushes his skull by beating him with a meat tenderizer.

Paul finds sleeping bags, food wrappers, and bottles of urine in the closet indicating the killers have been staying in the house for some time. He finds Felix and Zee and starts to tell them, only for Fox Mask to slit his throat with a machete. It is then revealed that Felix and Zee hired the assassins to murder the family so they could collect their inheritance. Lamb Mask finds Tiger Mask's corpse and flips the dinner table over in rage. He discovers a wounded Drake hiding but retreats after Erin stabs him with a screwdriver. Erin sets up nail traps by the house's entrances, explaining to Zee that she grew up in a survivalist compound where she learned combat and survival skills. Felix meets Drake in the basement and kills him out of pity by stabbing him with multiple screwdrivers.

On the upper floor, Erin comes across Paul's body. She jumps through a window to escape Fox Mask, injuring her leg. Lamb Mask is injured by one of her nail traps. While hiding, Erin overhears an argument between Felix, Zee, Fox Mask, and Lamb Mask where it was revealed that Lamb Mask and Tiger Mask were brothers. Her cell phone beeps to indicate that her text to 911 has gone through, alerting the killers. She is able to ambush and kill Lamb Mask by stabbing him in the head.

Realizing she cannot outrun Fox Mask with a wounded leg, Erin sets a trap at the front door where an axe would fall and kill anyone who opens the door. Fox Mask enters through a window, so Erin lures him into the basement, where she blinds him with a camera before cracking his skull with a log, killing him. Zee and Felix attempt to kill Erin themselves, but she kills Felix by shredding the top of his head with a blender before stabbing Zee in the top of the head with a knife. Felix's cell phone rings and Erin answers without speaking. Believing he is speaking to Felix, Crispian reveals his involvement in the scheme. Erin confronts him when he returns. Crispian explains that she was never meant to be targeted and he attempts to bribe her into staying quiet. Horrified and disgusted that he would sacrifice his entire family for money, she kills him by stabbing him in the neck and eye.

A police officer arrives and shoots Erin in the shoulder, having seen her kill Crispian. After calling for backup, he attempts to enter the house and falls victim to Erin's front door trap, with the axe swinging at his head just as the movie cuts to a blood splattered "You're next".

