Five years after the events of ''Don'', the European drug cartel bosses meet to discuss Don, who is jeopardizing their business by undercutting their prices. They decide that he must die. Living in Thailand for the last five years, Don goes to a remote settlement to pick up a shipment of cocaine. He gets cornered by his own associates who reveal that they were offered a deal by the Europeans to have their cocaine from Asia be open for sale in Europe. Don makes his way out by killing all his men and destroying the entire settlement. He returns to Malaysia, surrendering to Inspector Malik and Roma, who has joined Interpol. He is sentenced to death and sent to prison, where he meets old rival Vardhaan.

Vardhaan tries to exact revenge on Don for having him imprisoned but agrees to work together with him when Don offers him an opportunity to escape. Don and Vardhaan eventually break out by poisoning the other inmates. In Zurich, Don meets trusted companion Ayesha, and they retrieve a tape from a secret locker whose key was under Vardhaan's possession. It shows J.K. Diwan, vice-president of the Euro-printing DZB (Deutsche Zentral Bank) bribing Singhania to kill James Werden, the original choice for the bank’s president so that Diwan's superior, Fabian Kohl, would get the job. Singhania was killed by Vardhaan five years earlier. Don blackmails Diwan into giving him the bank's blueprints so he can steal the printing plates. Diwan gives him fake blueprints and hires Abdul Jabbar, a deadly assassin.

Don escapes and bribes Jabbar to work for him instead. With no other choice, Diwan gives him the original blueprints. Roma and Malik arrive in Berlin and unsuccessfully interrogate Diwan while Don and his team execute a bank robbery. After stealing the printing plates, Don is betrayed by Vardhaan and Jabbar but, having anticipated this, escapes. Another team member, Sameer, calls the police on Don and he is arrested. Don blackmails Diwan into giving him German immunity in exchange for erasing the evidence of him being involved in the murder of James Warden. He negotiates with the German police and Interpol over surrendering the plates and a disc containing details of the European underworld in exchange for the safety of the hostages and defusing the bombs in the bank.

Don and Roma reach Vardhaan after bloody combat with his thugs and find themselves in a standoff. Though ordered by Vardhaan and Jabbar - and Don himself - Roma is unable to kill Don and is shot by Jabbar in response; she still has feelings for him, though he killed her brother and his fiancée five years earlier, and also does not want to do it illegally. Don subdues Vardhaan and kills Jabbar. He obtains his immunity papers and surrenders the plates and the disc as per the bargain, while also getting Roma to an ambulance. Later, Don detonates a bomb planted in Diwan's car, killing Diwan and seemingly destroying the plates he had taken.

In a final scene, it is revealed that Don still has the currency plates; the ones which the police believe was destroyed in the explosion were fake. Sameer was actually loyal to Don; informing the police was part of the plan. The disc Don turned over actually contains the names of the European drug cartel. Having been exposed, Kohl is shortly arrested, and the DZB is forced to replace him. Don becomes king of the European underworld.

