IMF agent Trevor Hanaway is killed in Budapest by assassin Sabine Moreau, who steals Russian nuclear launch codes to sell to a man named "Cobalt". IMF agent Ethan Hunt is extracted from a Moscow prison, along with an asset named Bogdan, by Hanaway's handler and girlfriend Jane Carter and newly-promoted field agent Benji Dunn. The team is ordered to infiltrate the Kremlin for information on Cobalt. While they are inside, Cobalt blows the team's cover and they escape before a bomb destroys much of the Kremlin. Ethan is arrested by SVR agent Anatoly Sidorov and is blamed for the bombing.

Ethan escapes and meets with the IMF Secretary, who is in Moscow with analyst William Brandt. Brandt identifies Cobalt as Kurt Hendricks, a strategist seeking nuclear war between the U.S. and Russia. They determine that Hendricks bombed the Kremlin to cover his theft of a Russian launch control device. The Secretary explains that the President has initiated "Ghost Protocol", disavowing the entire IMF. He secretly orders Ethan to continue pursuing Cobalt before being killed in an ambush by Sidorov's forces. Ethan escapes with Brandt and regroups with Jane and Benji. They plan to infiltrate a meeting between Hendricks' associate, Wistrom, and Moreau at the Burj Khalifa in Dubai where Wistrom will buy the stolen launch codes.

The IMF team plans to intercept the codes by faking two meetings: Ethan and Brandt posing as Wistrom and Leonid Lisenker, a cryptographer who can identify fakes, to receive the codes from Moreau; one floor away, Jane poses as Moreau, passing counterfeit codes to the real Wistrom and Lisenker. They are forced to give the real codes when they discover that Lisenker can immediately authenticate them, relying on radioactive isotopes on the paper to track Wistrom afterwards. Completing the buy, Wistrom murders Lisenker. Moreau, having deduced that the buy is a setup, attempts to flee, but Jane intercepts her. As Moreau attacks Benji while trying to escape, Jane kicks her out a window to her death. Sidorov attempts but fails to apprehend Ethan.

Ethan pursues Wistrom, who escapes and reveals himself to be a masked Hendricks, while Jane and Benji confront Brandt over the advanced fighting skills that he displayed in the hotel. Brandt admits that he resigned as a field agent after failing to protect Julia Meade, Ethan's wife, from a hit. Ethan is taken by Bogdan to the Fog, an arms dealer, and learns that Hendricks is planning to launch missles using an old Soviet military satellite that is now being used to broadcast television. The satellite is owned by an Indian media tycoon, Brij Nath. The Fog sells the same information to Sidorov. In Mumbai, Jane seduces Nath, then overpowers him to get the satellite's override code; the team pursues Hendricks and Wistrom to one of Nath's broadcast stations to stop him from sending the codes via the satellite.

Hendricks sends launch orders to a Russian nuclear submarine to fire a missile at San Francisco, while Wistrom sabotages the station system to prevent IMF interference. Benji, Brandt, and Jane attempt to repair the station while Ethan pursues Hendricks. Cornered by Ethan, Hendricks jumps to his death to place the launch device out of reach. After Benji kills Wistrom, Jane reconnects the system and Ethan retrieves the launch device to disable the missile moments before detonation. Sidorov arrives and realizes that the IMF was innocent of the Kremlin bombing.

In Seattle, Ethan assembles his team for another mission given by Luther Stickell. Brandt confesses to Ethan his failure to protect Julia, but Ethan reveals that she is alive and her death was staged to give her a new identity safely away from him, and to let him infiltrate the prison to find Bogdan. A relieved Brandt accepts his mission and agrees to become an agent again. Julia arrives and shares a smile with Ethan from afar, before he slips away and receives an IMF debriefing.

