Hitman Arthur Bishop sneaks into the home of a Colombian cartel boss and drowns him in his own pool. Upon returning home to Louisiana, he meets with his friend and mentor Harry McKenna. 

Bishop is then assigned by his employer Dean to kill Harry. Dean tells Bishop about a failed mission in South Africa, in which several assassins were killed, the details of which are known only to Dean and Harry. Reluctantly, Bishop kills Harry and makes it look like a carjacking. At Harry's funeral, Bishop encounters Harry's son Steve, whom he later stops from killing a would-be carjacker in rage.

Steve asks Bishop to train him as a hitman. So, he's instructed to take a chihuahua to a coffee shop each day at the same time, catching the attention of his would-be target, the assassin Burke. As Steve settles into a routine, Bishop takes him to observe a contract killing. Burke eventually invites Steve for drinks. 

Ignoring Bishop's instruction to overdose Burke with Rohypnol, Steve goes with him to his apartment. When Burke begins to undress, he attempts to strangle the much larger man with a belt, imitating Bishop. Burke fights back, and Steve barely manages to kill him after a lengthy fight. Dean expresses disapproval of Bishop's usage of Steve, which violated the rules of contract arrangement.

Bishop's next target is cult leader Andrew Vaughn, whom he plans to inject with adrenaline to simulate a heart attack, for which the paramedics would administer a fatal dose of epinephrine. While Bishop and Steve are preparing for the hit, Vaughn's doctor arrives and administers an IV of ketamine, which would inhibit the adrenaline's effects. The two decide to suffocate Vaughn instead. 

After killing Vaughn, they are discovered by the guards so they shoot their way out, then fly home separately. At the airport, Bishop finds a hitman who was supposed to be killed in the mission that Harry allegedly sold out. The hitman reveals Dean engineered the failed mission to cover up his shady dealings. Bishop realizes Dean framed Harry and was tricked into killing him.

After dispatching Dean's henchmen who ambush him, Bishop learns Steve has also been ambushed at the safehouse. Steve kills his attackers, finds his father's gun and realizes Bishop killed him. Bishop and Steve ambush and kill Dean. When they stop for gas, Steve blows up the truck with Bishop seemingly still inside. 

Steve returns to Bishop's and does two things Bishop told him not to: He plays a record on the turntable and takes Bishop's 1966 Jaguar E-Type. As he drives away, Steve sees a note on the passenger seat; it reads: "Steve, If you're reading this, you're dead. (Bishop)" Steve gives one last laugh before the car explodes. Another explosion destroys Bishop's safehouse. Security footage at the gas station reveals that Bishop had escaped from the truck before the explosion. He gets into a spare truck and drives away.

