In 1917 Republican China, Liu Jinxi and his wife Yu are an ordinary couple with two sons, Fangzheng and Xiaotian, living together in Liu Village, Yunnan. One day, two bandits enter the village and attempt to rob the general store. Liu  happens to be in the shop, and he fights and kills the robbers when they turn violent. During an autopsy, the detective Xu Baijiu, who is sent to investigate the case, discovers that one of the dead bandits was Yan Dongsheng, who is among the government's ten most wanted fugitives. The local magistrate is pleased, and his fellow villagers regard Liu  as a hero.

However, Xu becomes suspicious because he does not believe Liu could accidentally defeat such a formidable bandit. Xu notes signs of brain hemorrhaging due to an injury to Yan Dongsheng's vagus nerve. From this and other evidence, Xu concludes that Liu is in fact a highly skilled martial artist who conceals his talent through misdirection. Investigating further, Xu discovers Liu's true identity: Tang Long, the second-in-command of the 72 Demons, a group of vicious and bloodthirsty warriors. Liu admits his past but states that he has reformed. Xu, an uncompromising lawman, does not accept that people can change, but he is perplexed when Liu fails to kill him when they are alone.

Xu immediately returns to the county office to obtain an arrest warrant for Tang Long. The magistrate delays issuing the warrant, citing lack of evidence while actually soliciting a bribe from Xu. Xu eventually obtains the bribe money from his estranged wife, who blames him for causing her father's suicide. After issuing the warrant, the magistrate informs the Master of the 72 Demons of Tang Long's whereabouts, hoping to receive a reward. Offended, the Master reveals that Liu is his son, and he kills the magistrate. The Master sends his henchmen to Liu Village to capture Liu and raze the village.

While Xu and the constables are on their way there, two henchmen reach the village and kill a villager to force Liu to acknowledge his identity. Liu kills one of the two assailants and runs away. The other assailant, the Master's wife, chases Liu and fights with him in the buffalo shed, where she is crushed in a stampede and nearly falls into a river. As Liu attempts to save her, she tells him that he is still Tang Long. She falls to her death, and the remaining villagers flee to a fortress for safety. Xu's deputies decline to save the village, preferring to wait for Liu and the 72 Demons to kill each other.

Using his knowledge of physiology, Xu devises a plan to fake Liu's death. However, the ruse continues too long, and Xu is forced to revive Liu in front of the 72 Demons, who have assembled to pay respect to their fallen comrade. As a sign of his dedication, Liu severs his left arm, announcing that he has broken all ties with them. The 72 Demons accept his statement but tell him that he must speak with the Master, who is waiting for him at his house. After a tense dinner in which the Master has taken Liu's family hostage, the Master announces that he will allow Liu to leave the 72 Demons, but Xiaotian's (Liu's son) has to take his place.

Enraged, Liu attacks the master with a broadsword, but the Master uses qigong to protect himself from the blade. Xu infiltrates the house through a hatch and, from underneath the floor, weakens the Master's defense during the fight by piercing his heel with an acupuncture needle. The Master incapacitates Xu and proceeds to overpower Liu. Before the Master can kill Liu, Xu attacks the Master with another acupuncture needle to the neck. The Master fatally wounds Xu, but the needles act as a lightning rod and earthing wire, and the Master is killed by a bolt of lightning. With his dying breath, Xu announces the case closed. Liu returns home, living a normal life with his family.

