Scientist Sanjay Mehra has created a computer from which he sends variations of the syllable ''Om'' into space, hoping to attract extraterrestrial life. When he believes he has finally received a response, the scientific community ridicules him. While Sanjay is driving home, frustrated, an alien spacecraft appears overhead. He drives off the road and the car explodes, killing him. His pregnant wife, Sonia Mehra, survives but with injuries; their son, Rohit Mehra, is born with a developmental disability. Sonia learns that surgery is the only cure for Rohit's disability, but it could paralyze or kill him. Not wanting to lose her son, she raises him in the town of Kasauli.

Years later, a young woman, Nisha Malhotra, arrives at Kasauli and is initially antagonistic to Rohit because of his childish practical jokes against her. Her friend, Raj Saxena, and his four friends attack Rohit and break his kick scooter; Sonia chides them for assaulting Rohit, saying that he did not intentionally make fun of Nisha, rather he was trying to apologise to her. Realizing her mistake, Nisha gives Rohit a bicycle and introduces him to her parents, who are sympathetic to him. Rohit and Nisha (now friends) find Sanjay's old computer and inadvertently send signals into space, which is received by the aliens. An extraterrestrial spacecraft appears in the night causing a power outage in the town. The ship leaves hastily, accidentally leaving a group member behind. Rohit, Nisha, his young friends, and Sonia find and befriend the alien, naming him Jadoo after discovering his psychokinetic abilities derived from sunlight.

Raj resents Nisha's closeness to Rohit, bullying him and spreading a rumour that Raj and Nisha are getting married. The rumour upsets Nisha and Rohit, who is hurt because he thought Nisha was his girlfriend. Jadoo discovers that Rohit is disabled and uses his powers to enhance Rohit's mental and intellectual ability. The next morning, Rohit has clear vision; even being a seventh-standard student, he later solves a tenth-standard mathematics problem orally, surprising his mathematics teacher and school principal.

Rohit's physical abilities increase to superhuman levels. Raj and his friends challenge Rohit and his friends to a basketball game. Rohit scores several baskets, and Raj and his friends begin to cheat, with Jadoo being unable to make the kids jump higher due to the sky being cloudy. Raj's team almost emerges victorious, but the sun comes out, and Jadoo helps Rohit and his friends win the game. Rohit tells Nisha that he loves her, and she returns his affection. Raj's friends confront Rohit's friends about the basketball game, who flee, accidentally dropping Jadoo. Constable Chelaram Sukhwani sees Jadoo in a bag and calls for backup. Led by Inspector Khurshid Khan, the police capture the bag; but, Rohit arrives and snatches the bag away. Confronted by Raj and his friends, an infuriated Rohit overpowers them and the policemen arrive, who open the bag and find it filled with straw instead of Jadoo, much to the astonishment of Rohit. Jadoo turns out to have escaped when Chelaram was calling the other police officers.

Khurshid, suspicious of Rohit, confronts him at his house with other officers. The police seize Jadoo and knock Rohit out. When he regains consciousness, Rohit catches up to the police cars in time to save Jadoo from being sent to the United States. The flying saucer which he had summoned with his father's computer returns, and Rohit bids a sad farewell to Jadoo. As Jadoo leaves, Rohit reverts to his old self; this saves him from prosecution by the government, who congratulate him for his actions.

Raj and his friends meet and harass Rohit again, challenging him to kick a ball to them. Rohit angrily kicks the ball into Raj's face after Jadoo permanently returns his superpowers. Rohit and Nisha thank Jadoo, and get married.

