John Person is a struggling actor in Los Angeles who is $28K in debt. His neighbor Neely offers him $25K to take a gun and deliver a blue suitcase to "Cowboy" in Baker. Person initially refuses but accepts when Neely reveals he has detailed personal information on Person and raises the offer to cover his debts.

In a Baker hotel, Person misses a man in a cowboy outfit. While getting a drink, he is immediately held at gunpoint by Randy, who thinks Person is after his girlfriend Ruthie. She comes to Person's room later, returning his dropped wallet, and they hit it off. In a diner the next day, Person meets Dan, who tells many strange tales and conspiracy theories about the desert. Person meets Ruthie outside a gas station, buys her alcohol, and they drive to Devil's Crest lakebed outside town. As they get drunk, he hears stories about disappearing people. Person drives Ruthie home when she gets sick and passes out.

Going back to the motel, Person again misses Cowboy, who left him a bowling ball bag addressed to Neely that he is not allowed to open. Person's friend Grace calls to tell him Neely was beheaded, and FBI agent Banks is looking for him. Person fears Neely's head is in the bag. Candy, a hooker, comes to Person's room curious about his meeting with Cowboy and warns him that Cowboy may be responsible for the disappearance of three strippers from Las Vegas.  Later, Randy threatens to kill him if he talks to Ruthie again.  The next day, Person buries the bag. Stella, the owner of a bar, reveals she rescued Ruthie from the Devil's Crest when Ruthie was a child. At Stella's bar, Banks tries to link Person to Neely's murder and 75 mysterious disappearances from Baker.

Person sees Randy has stolen his suitcase. He drives to a junkyard with his gun, finding Randy has tied Ruthie up. During an armed standoff, Person convinces Randy to let Ruthie and him go by threatening to shoot her. Later, Ruthie comes to Person's room to tell him Randy was arrested, and they have sex. Randy kidnaps Person, but before Randy can shoot him, Cowboy shoots Randy. Going back to the motel, Person finds suitcases stacked in his room. Cowboy tells him to drive them to the Devil's Crest lakebed. When Person refuses, Cowboy takes Grace hostage. Person goes to Devil's Crest and meets Bob the Indian, who tells him where and how to arrange the suitcases and leaves.

Cowboy arrives with a group in blue tracksuits, similar to Neely's, including Ruthie. Cowboy pulls out a pair of size-11 bowling shoes from the bag. Cowboy offers them to Person as a chance to come with him to Paradise. When he refuses, Cowboy gives them to Ruthie. She excitedly invites Person, but he declines. Cowboy shoots a flare. Cowboy insists he is simply a cowboy, even as his skin turns blue and translucent. As the flare explodes, Person blacks out. Person awakens alone on the dry lakebed. All of the suitcases are empty except for a locked one nearby. Frustrated, he takes it and walks to the highway. Grace meets him and says he has been missing for three days. She gives him a key from Cowboy, and he finds his $28K in the case.

Back in Los Angeles, Banks interrogates Person. Unable to tell the truth to the families of those disappeared, Banks invents a story. Person sees a band-aid on Banks' neck, similar to the one that appeared on his own neck after Devil's Crest, relating to one of Dan's conspiracy theories. As Person and Grace go on a date at a bowling alley, she congratulates him for getting a supporting role in a film. She quotes Cowboy with bright blue eyes. Person, wearing size-11 shoes, rolls a ball down the alley; his eyes turn bright blue, too. The bowling ball rolls across the vast moonlit Devil's Crest. Far in the distance white flames, like the Cowboy's flare, rise from the desert floor.

