Several small, disparate incidents involving the Earth's magnetic field cause scientists led by geophysicist Dr. Josh Keyes and scientists Dr. Serge Leveque and Dr. Conrad Zimsky to conclude that the Earth's molten core has stopped rotating. Unless restarted, the field is set to collapse within months, exposing the surface to devastating solar radiation. 

The U.S. government backs a secret project to build a vessel to drill to the core and release nuclear weapons to restart the rotation. They utilize the work of Dr. Ed "Braz" Brazzelton who has developed "Unobtainium", a material that can withstand and convert extreme heat into electricity, as well as a laser-based high-speed drilling array. 

NASA pilots Commander Robert Iverson and Major Rebecca "Beck" Childs are enlisted to pilot the multi-compartment vessel ''Virgil'', while computer hacker Theodore Donald "Rat" Finch is brought on to both keep news of the pending disaster and their attempt to restart the core off the Internet.

''Virgil'' is launched through the Marianas Trench and makes its way through the crust. While traversing the mantle, the team accidentally drills through a gigantic empty geode structure, damaging the lasers when it lands at its base. As they traverse outside the ship to free the vessel, the geode is  flooded with magma, and Iverson is killed by a falling shard. The rest return in time as ''Virgil'' continues its descent. 

Further down, passing through a field of enormous diamond formations, one of them breaches the last compartment housing the detonation timers for the nuclear charges. Leveque sacrifices himself to ensure the others have the charges and launch codes before the compartment is crushed.

The team reaches the molten core and realizes it is much less dense than previously thought, throwing off their calculations on restarting its motions. Communicating with the surface, overseer of the operation Lieutenant General Thomas Purcell, orders them to abandon the effort and return immediately as they plan to use a secondary protocol to restart the core. Finch is secretly communicating with the ''Virgil'' team and learns that this secondary protocol is the top-secret project DESTINI ('''D'''eep '''E'''arth '''S'''eismic '''T'''rigger '''INI'''tiative). 

Keyes discovers Zimsky was a lead scientist on DESTINI, a U.S. tectonic weapon that, when first tested, had stopped the core's rotation. Finch redirects power from DESTINI to prevent Purcell from reactivating it, as Keyes fears that could destroy the Earth instead of restarting the core. Meanwhile, destructive events, including a lightning storm in Rome and a burst of ultraviolet rays that destroys the Golden Gate Bridge, alert the world to the situation.

On ''Virgil'', the remaining team plans to place an explosive in each of the remaining compartments, release them, and time their detonations in an exact sequence to trigger the core's rotation through constructive wave interference. Due to the faulty design of ''Virgil'' due to time constraints, Brazzelton sacrifices himself to engage the compartment detachment mechanism in the vessel's underbelly. 

As they set the charges, Keyes and Zimsky realize that they need more explosive power than previously thought and in their race to adjust timings, Zimsky becomes trapped in a detached compartment. Keyes uses ''Virgil''{{'}}s nuclear power source to provide the additional energy for the final detonation. While it leaves the main compartment powerless and Keyes and Childs trapped, the other explosions successfully restart the core's rotation. 

Keyes recalls that the unobtainium shell can convert heat and pressure to energy, and the two of them wire the shell directly to their systems in time to power the craft and ride the pressure wave out of the core and towards the surface through tectonic plates, eventually breaching into the ocean floor near Hawaii. Due to the much lower heat and pressure in this environment, ''Virgil'' no longer has sufficient power to establish communications. The government searches for them, and Finch, tracking nearby whale sound, realizes that the ''Virgil'' crew are using low-power ultrasound to draw whales nearby. Keyes and Childs are soon rescued.

In the aftermath, Finch uploads information about ''Virgil'' and its team and the classified information about DESTINI across the Internet, causing the world to revere the crew as heroes.

