In Stockholm, journalist Mikael Blomkvist is recovering from the legal and professional fallout of a libel suit brought against him by businessman Hans-Erik Wennerström. The wealthy Henrik Vanger offers Blomkvist evidence against Wennerström in exchange for an unusual task: investigate the 40-year-old disappearance and presumed murder of Henrik's grandniece, 16-year-old Harriet. 

Every year, Vanger receives a framed pressed flower, the same type she always gave him on his birthday before disappearing. He believes her killer is taunting him. Blomkvist moves into a cottage on the Vanger family estate on Hedestad Island.

Meanwhile, Lisbeth Salander is a young, brilliant asocial investigator and hacker whose state-appointed guardian suffers a stroke. He is replaced by Nils Bjurman, a sadist who controls Salander's finances and extorts sexual favors by threatening to have her institutionalized. Unaware she is recording him, Bjurman chains Salander to his bed and brutally rapes her. At their next meeting, Salander tasers Bjurman, binds him, rapes him with a dildo, and tattoos "I'm a rapist pig" across his chest. Using the secret recording she made, she blackmails him into securing her financial independence and having no further contact with her.

In the meantime, Blomkvist explores the island and interviews Vanger's relatives, learning some were Nazi sympathizers during World War II. He uncovers a list of names and numbers that turn out to be Bible verse references, and recruits Salander as his research assistant. She discovers a connection between the list and numerous young women brutally murdered from 1947 to 1967, indicating a serial killer. Many of the victims have Jewish names, making her theorize that the murders could have been motivated by antisemitism. One morning, Blomkvist finds the mutilated corpse of his cat on the doorstep. Another night, a bullet grazes his forehead; after Salander tends his wounds, they have sex. The pair learn that Harriet's late father, Gottfried, and later Martin, her brother, committed the murders.

While looking for more proof, Blomkvist gets caught by Martin and forced into a specially prepared basement. There, Blomkvist is gassed unconscious and placed in restraints. Martin brags about killing and raping women for decades, like his father, but admits to not knowing what happened to Harriet. Blomkvist is about to get killed when Salander arrives, attacks Martin and forces him to flee. She pursues him on her motorcycle until he runs off the road and hits a propane tank, blowing up the car and killing him. Salander nurses Blomkvist back to health and reveals that, as a child, she was institutionalized after attempting to burn her father alive.

They deduce that Harriet is alive and in hiding; traveling to London, they find her. Harriet reveals that Gottfried sexually abused her when she was 14 for an entire year before she was able to defend herself, killing him in the process. Martin continued the abuse after Gottfried's death. Her cousin, Anita, smuggled her off the island and let Harriet assume her identity in London, though Anita and her husband were later killed in a car accident. Finally free of her brother, Harriet returns to Sweden and tearfully reunites with Henrik.

As promised, Henrik gives Blomkvist information against Wennerström, but it proves to be outdated and useless. Salander reveals that she has hacked Wennerström's accounts and discovered that he is laundering money for various criminal syndicates. She gives Blomkvist evidence of Wennerström's crimes, which Blomkvist publishes in a scathing editorial, ruining Wennerström and bringing Blomkvist to national prominence. Salander, in disguise, travels to Switzerland and removes two billion euros from Wennerström's secret accounts. Wennerström is later murdered in an apparent gangland shooting.

On her way to give Blomkvist a Christmas present, Salander sees him and his married lover, Erika Berger, being affectionate. She discards the gift and rides away on her motorbike.

