Shay, a runaway girl on her first night in Sydney, finds work as a prostitute. During one of her rounds, Shay is beaten up by couple of pimps because she took one of their customers. Meanwhile, Holly is on her last night working as a high-class call girl before departing with one of her clients to Paris. Needing a brunette girl for one of her customers, Holly discovers Shay and recruits her for a sexual encounter. In the client's hotel room, the two witness him being killed by Bennett, a corrupt police officer.

The girls flee the hotel, chased by Bennett through King's Cross, Sydney's red-light district. Desperate to throw him off their trail, Holly and Shay use a cab driven by Harry, and the pair manage to evade Bennett, only for him to track Holly using the murder victim's recent call list. Bennett intercepts Holly, murders the pimps surrounding her, and proceeds to assault and capture a defenseless Holly. They drive through the street looking for Shay. It is then revealed that Shay is seventeen years old and ran away from home after her mother died. After Shay briefly stays in a room, Bennett finds her walking through the streets, and chases her, leaving Holly trapped inside the car.

Holly takes Bennett's car and rescues Shay by running over Bennett. Holly decides to seek help from her boyfriend Ligurian, who happens to be another police officer. Holly and Shay visit Ligurian at a strip club in need of assistance in fleeing the city. However, Bennett arrives, brutally kills an employee of the club, and proceeds to shoot Holly only for Ligurian to gun him down, killing him.

Unfortunately, due to his relationship with Bennett, Ligurian turns on the women and forces Shay to drive him and Holly out of the building. In a split second, Shay drives the car into a wall, killing Ligurian. Holly and Shay then escape with a briefcase they found before Holly succumbs to grievous injuries from the crash. Heartbroken, Shay leaves in Harry's taxi. At sunrise at a beach shore, Harry gives Shay his pet rabbit to hold.

