Vandal Savage plans to start a new civilization by exterminating two thirds of the population and hires Mirror Master to hack into the Batcomputer and steal contingency plans devised by Batman to incapacitate his League teammates should they go rogue. Savage assembles Cheetah, Star Sapphire, Metallo, Bane, Mirror Master, and Ma'alefa'ak and offers them money to simultaneously attack the League members using the plans, which he has altered to be lethal. Together, the villains form the Legion of Doom.

As each of them do their part to take out the Justice League, Alfred Pennyworth informs Batman that the bodies of Thomas and Martha Wayne have been exhumed and are missing. At their graves, Bane ambushes Batman, then beats him unconscious and buries him alive in his father's coffin.

Martian Manhunter celebrates his birthday with his colleagues in his civilian identity as John Jones. A disguised Ma'afela'ak gives him a drink laced with poison containing magnesium carbonate, then sets him on fire. The magnesium continually fuels the flames.

Cheetah ambushes Wonder Woman at a dock and infects her with nanomachines that make her perceive everyone as Cheetah. This will cause her to fight until she dies from a stress-induced heart attack or brain aneurysm. The Amazon proceeds to attack both Cheetah and nearby innocent bystanders.

Mirror Master lures Flash into a trap, attaching a bomb to his wrist. If he tries to remove it or decreases in speed, the bomb will explode, killing everyone in a three-mile radius.

Star Sapphire targets Green Lantern, luring him to a mine and using Scarecrow's fear gas on him. After he fails to save her hostages' lives, she convinces him that he does not deserve his mantle, causing him to renounce his ring and resign himself to his fate in the collapsing mine.

On the ''Daily Planet''{{'}}s roof, former employee Henry Ackerman is aiming to commit suicide. Superman arrives on the scene and talks Ackerman down. However, Ackerman, revealed to be a disguised Metallo, shoots him with a Kryptonite bullet.

Back at the Hall of Doom, the Legion celebrates their victory. Savage reveals he plans to fire a rocket into the sun, triggering a solar flare that will destroy half the planet and disable all modern technology. Meanwhile, Batman comes close to accepting his fate. However, a tape recorder left behind by Bane plays a taunting message which motivates him to break out and save the League. At the same time, Cyborg hears of Wonder Woman's predicament and sets out on his own.

Cyborg arrives on the scene of Wonder Woman's rampage, neutralizing the nanites with a sonic frequency. Then, he and Batman save Martian Manhunter using aluminum oxide to neutralize the magnesium. Meanwhile, Batman tells Flash to run and vibrate through an iceberg in the Arctic, leaving the bomb inside it and saving him. Arriving at the collapsed mine, Batman shows Jordan that the hostages and terrorists were merely androids. Sure of himself once more, Jordan re-establishes his will and regains control of his ring.

Wonder Woman, Cyborg and Martian Manhunter arrive in Metropolis, where Superman's health has deteriorated. They extract the bullet with an improvised scalpel, allowing him to recover.

The League retreats to the Watchtower, where Batman reveals he created the plans and has a hidden tracing algorithm in place should the Batcomputer be hacked. The League track down and subdue the Legion of Doom but fail to stop the rocket from launching. Using the Hall of Doom's technology, the League phase the rocket so the flare harmlessly passes through,  saving Earth in the process.

At the Watchtower, Superman reports that Vandal Savage has been found guilty of crimes against humanity and sentenced to life without parole by the World Court. The Justice League officially adds Cyborg to their roster and vote on whether Batman should be allowed to remain a member. Batman defends his action and criticizes the others for not understanding the potential danger of a rogue Justice League before quitting. With his trust in Batman assured, Superman teleports him out of the Watchtower after giving him a box with a small piece of Kryptonite inside.

