Set in the near future, aging ex-convict and thief Frank Weld lives alone and suffers from Alzheimer's  and dementia. Frank's son Hunter, an attorney with a family of his own, grows tired of making weekly visits to his father's home without his kids, but is reluctant to put his father into full-time care, so he purchases a robot companion, which is programmed to provide Frank with therapeutic care, including a fixed daily routine and cognition-enhancing activities like gardening.

Initially wary of the robot's presence in his life, Frank warms up to his new companion when he realizes the robot is not programmed to distinguish between legal recreational activities and criminal ones, and can assist him in lock-picking. Together, the two commit a robbery in order to win the affection of the local librarian, Jennifer: they steal an antique copy of ''Don Quixote'' from the library, which is being renovated and turned into a community center in the wake of declining interest in print media.

In the meantime, Frank's daughter Madison, who is away on a philanthropic trip in Turkmenistan, learns of the robot and returns to convince her father to get rid of the machine, which she finds ethically objectionable. Frank insists on keeping the robot, and they commit one last robbery, stealing jewels from Jake, the rich young developer at the head of the library renovation project. The police become involved and begin to question and monitor Frank, who maintains his innocence, feigning deathly illness so that Hunter will return to see him. In order to cover his tracks, Frank is faced with the decision of whether to wipe the memory of his robot, even as his own memory rapidly deteriorates.

Frank goes to the library where he discovers that Jennifer is his ex-wife, which he had forgotten.  He then returns home where the robot convinces him to wipe its holographic memory; it argues that it is not a real person and its sole reason for existence is to help Frank, which it can best do by helping him avoid jail. Frank then moves into a full-time care facility to help him cope with his dementia. During a visit from his family, he slips Hunter a note, implying that the jewels are hidden under the tomato plants in the garden that the robot made.

