A young man named Travis goes into a hotel room at a Hostel in Las Vegas where a Ukrainian couple, Victor and Anka, are currently staying. Anka and Victor fall unconscious after being drugged by the beer Travis gave them and are swept up by a cleanup crew, and it is revealed that Travis is a member of the Elite Hunting Club. Victor later wakes up in a cell in an abandoned building and watches as two guards drag Anka out of her cell.

Scott leaves his fiancée Amy to go to Las Vegas to attend his own bachelor party with his friend Carter, Amy's former flame. There, they meet up with their other friends, Mike and Justin. The four go to a nightclub, where they meet Kendra and Nikki, two escorts Carter secretly paid to have sex with Scott. Kendra and Nikki tell the four men about a "freaky" party they could go to on the other end of town, and the four men take a cab to an abandoned building. At the party, Kendra makes a move on Scott, but he declines and tells her about how he previously cheated on Amy and almost lost her, and does not want it to happen again. Scott wakes up the next morning in his hotel room with Carter and Justin. The three wonder where Mike is, as he is not answering his phone.

Mike wakes in a cell next to Victor and starts panicking. Two guards take him to a glassroom torture chamber in front of a live audience and strap him to a chair, and Mike is on display to be gambled upon by wealthy clients. A middle-aged client dressed as a doctor enters the room; Mike pleads with him, but the man cuts and peels Mike's face off then finishes him off. Worried about Mike's whereabouts, Scott, Carter, and Justin travel to Nikki's trailer, but cannot find her. Kendra arrives and reveals that Nikki is missing as well. Meanwhile at the Las Vegas Art Show, Nikki is brought into the same room as Mike and strapped to a table dressed as a cheerleader. Another man who speaks in Hungarian enters the room and releases a jar full of cockroaches onto Nikki, some of which crawl into her mouth and asphyxiates her to death.

Scott, Carter, Justin, and Kendra get a text from Mike's phone, sent by Travis, to meet him and Nikki in a hotel room. When they get there, everyone is kidnapped by Travis and wakes up in individual cells along with Victor. The two guards take Justin away, and Carter calls the guard and informs them that he is also a client. After he shows his Elite Hunting Club tattoo, the guards let him go. Scott, Justin, and Kendra are confused at to what happened and Carter revealed it was members only franchise.

Justin is later strapped into a chair and Carter, Flemming, and Travis watch as a woman dressed as a Japanese cyber ninja shot him up with multiple crossbow bolts. The main event starts and Scott is strapped into a chair dressed in a tuxedo. He asks Carter why he is doing this, and Carter reveals he wanted Amy for himself, as they were in a relationship before she ended up with Scott. He pointed out that while Justin didn't deserve to share a similar fate, he relished on Mike's death claiming he had it coming. Carter says he was disappointed that Amy stayed with Scott after Carter told her about Scott's infidelity. He says that once Scott dies, he will comfort Amy and she will want to be with him.

Flemming then orders Scott to be released from the chair, and Scott and Carter wind up fighting. Scott ends up stabbing Carter, cuts off Carter's tattoo, and then escapes by using Carter's tattoo on the scanners. Victor kills one of the guards and frees himself, but is killed by another guard. Scott manages to call the cops and frees Kendra, who is shot dead by Travis. Upon learning that the police have been contacted, Flemming had no other choice but to do away with the Las Vegas Art Show. He ordered for all of the prisoners to be killed and the clientele to be evacuated. Scott and Travis fight and Scott kills Travis. Flemming rigged the building to explode and attempted to drive away, but Carter kills him as payback for ruining his plan to waste Scott and steals his car. Carter sees Scott and locks the front gate before Scott can get to him. He then quickly drives off while the building explodes, with Scott still inside the gates.

Sometime later, Carter is holding Amy hostage in her house. After he tortures her and tries to kill her, Amy then reveals that Scott is still alive and Scott pins Carter's hand to a chair with a corkscrew. A burned Scott appears and the pair strap him to a chair in her garage, where Scott kills him with a lightweight gas-powered tiller.

