Lucy Klavel is a young woman who starts her practical training as an at-home nurse. She is trained by an older lady, Mrs. Catherine Wilson. The last patient on their rounds lives in an old, remote mansion. Lucy enters the mansion, which is filled with stuffed animals, and finds Mrs. Wilson at the bed of the patient, Mrs. Deborah Jessel. Mrs. Wilson tells her that Jessel was once a prominent ballet teacher, but is now bedridden and in a coma. There is a rumor that Mrs. Jessel has a treasure of gold and jewels located somewhere on the property. After her first day on the job, Lucy tells her boyfriend, William, about the treasure. Lucy, Will, and Will's brother Ben decide to hunt for the treasure on Halloween night.

They enter the basement of the house through a window. In a room filled with stuffed animals gathered around a tea table, they find a single locked door. Lucy correctly suspects that a key worn by Jessel is the key to this door. Inside, they find a white sheet covering what looks like a stuffed mannequin of a young girl. Lucy suggests that this is the corpse of Jessel's mute daughter Anna, still dressed in a ballerina outfit. Lucy twists the key on the pedestal the corpse is standing on, and the corpse starts spinning slowly with music playing, like a ballerina on a music box.

They hear noises from the floor above and try to flee the house, but the window through which they entered is now secured by iron bars. While trying to find an exit, they become separated. Ben finds himself in an operating room with no door and no idea how he got there. He is killed by veiled ballerinas who appear out of nowhere.

Lucy sees Mrs. Jessel sitting at what was once Anna's tea party table. There is a flashback demonstrating that Mrs. Jessel was a very strict ballet teacher: a girl leaves the ballet class and Jessel later finds her lying dead in Anna's room; Anna is bent over the girl, drinking her blood. It is revealed that the Jessels are vampires.

Will is attacked by Ben, who is now a vampire. Will stabs Ben with a pair of scissors, but Mrs. Jessel attacks and kills him. Lucy discovers that Anna is not dead. Anna attempts to drink Lucy's blood, but Lucy pushes her away. Mrs. Wilson appears, attacks and sedates Lucy.

While Wilson watches, Mrs. Jessel implants the pupae of a moth into the throats of Lucy and Anna; this is a ritual to exchange their souls. Jessel believes that she has been successful when Anna awakes and her eye color has changed and she is in a different body. Jessel orders Anna to dance, but Anna does not respond. Wilson attempts to punish her, but Anna stabs her with scissors and then turns on Jessel. Both women fall to the floor. Although bleeding heavily, Jessel tries to bite Anna. Lucy whips her mother until she releases Anna, and the two girls throw Jessel off a third floor balcony.

Anna and Lucy escape from the mansion, and walk along a seaside cliff holding hands. Lucy (in Anna’s body) leans over the cliff, but she does not fall. Instead, she flies into the sky. Her scars disappear, and Anna (in Lucy’s body) watches her float away.

