On a flight from Los Angeles to Kansas City, passenger Ralph Bundt becomes violent and attempts to enter the cockpit. Ralph had been bitten by a lab rat, brought onto the plane by Henry, who claimed they were his classroom's pet hamsters. Ralph bites flight attendant Paula on the face, to the horror of her colleague Jenny. Captain Forrest and First Officer Willsy land the plane at the nearest city. Disobeying orders, they pull up to a jetway operated by baggage handler Ed Ramirez. Everyone flees the plane, except for elderly couple Bev and Doc Stevens and the pilots, who try to contain Ralph in a bathroom. The passengers find that they have been locked out of the terminal, which is quickly surrounded by armed soldiers and CDC scientists.

Passenger Shilah Washington reveals she has a medical kit in her bag in the cargo hold. Jenny, Henry, Ed, and fellow passengers Niall and Preston go to retrieve it. There they find the bathroom empty and covered in blood. Preston gets Doc off the plane, while the others retrieve Shilah's kit and Niall's handgun. Jenny is attacked by an infected Captain Forrest and Niall shoots and kills him, but is splattered by the captain's blood. Leaving the plane, they find Preston's body, and avoid an infected Bev.

Rejoining the others, the group deduces that the infection is probably a form of rabies spread through bites. When Doc is bitten by an infected rat, they lock him and Paula away. George, an unaccompanied minor, tells the others that Henry brought the rats onto the plane. As Henry tells Jenny that George is just confused, they are attacked by the escaped Ralph, but kill him with the help of Ed and Shilah.

Four heavily armed officers arrive to administer drugs to the group, but also release the infected passengers from their confinement. Passenger Louise Treadwell is bitten by her infected cat, while the infected Doc bites one of the officers. After shooting Doc, the officers and a passenger named Hvorst attempt to evacuate but are shot and killed by personnel outside the doors, leaving Hvorst's girlfriend, Nicca, distraught. Ed drags one surviving officer back inside. The survivors hear the screams of the infected (at this point they are Willsy, Louise, Preston, and Paula). Ed points out an airport catering truck the survivors can hide in. As the others clamber inside the truck, Niall and Susan share a loving embrace, until Niall begins to drool and turns. Henry and the others grab Susan and begin pulling her into the truck. Niall, fully turned, grabs her from the back and pulls her off the truck floor. The group in the truck question the wounded officer, who reveals that he does not represent the CDC but rather CBDT, meaning Chemical Biological Domestic Terrorism, a division of the Department of Homeland Security that specializes in countering chemical and biological terrorism. He tells them about a quarantined building in Los Angeles that housed a lab for a group of bioterrorists and confirms that the drugs are only experimental antidotes. The wounded officer then shoots himself. Just as Ed suggests escaping through an old drainage tunnel beneath the terminal, Willsy appears on the roof of the truck; George then raises the truck and crushes Willsy.

The survivors access the tunnel, though Nicca is attacked and dragged away. Jenny kills an attacking Paula. While searching for directions to the tunnel, the group is attacked by Niall and Susan. Henry kills them, but he is bitten. George confronts him with suspicious evidence concerning viruses that he found in Henry's briefcase, to which Henry admits being part of the terrorist cell at the apartment building, who have planned a worldwide plague to cull the human population. After a struggle, Henry shoots and kills Ed, administers his trial antidote to himself and then kidnaps George to use him as a human shield. Shilah and Jenny separate to find George and Henry.

While searching for George and Henry, Jenny is chased and attacked by an infected Preston. Running along the baggage conveyor belts Jenny eventually taunts him into crawling into part of the conveyor belts machinery and kills him. 
Continuing to look, Jenny quietly sneaks past an infected Nicca. Shilah finds Jenny and gives her thermal goggles. She then reveals to Jenny that she has been bitten, and sacrifices herself to the infected so Jenny can escape. While escaping into the wall, Jenny is attacked by an infected Louise but she knocks her unconscious with the wrench. Jenny uses the goggles and finds George near the tunnel, where he tells her the antidote has failed and that Henry is mutating into a rat-like infected, who appears and attacks her. After a struggle with Jenny, George shoots him and Jenny bashes in his skull.

As Jenny and George crawl through the dark drainage tunnel, George sees through the thermal goggles that she has been bitten. George escapes through the grate at the end of the drainage tunnel but Jenny cannot fit through the bars, and he reluctantly leaves her behind as she succumbs to the infection. George discards the thermal vision goggles, through which Louise's infected cat is seen walking towards the Luxor Las Vegas hotel, implying that the plane landed at McCarran International Airport and that all efforts to contain the virus have failed.

