The film is framed as a documentary, occasionally cutting away to interviews with Natasha and Steven recorded after the events.

In the midst of the drought and water shortages, the Government of New South Wales announced plans to recycle millions of litres of water trapped in a network of abandoned train tunnels beneath the heart of Sydney. However, the government suddenly goes cold on the plan, and it does not tell the public why. There is also talk of homeless people who use the tunnel as shelter going missing. This and the silence from the ministers leads a journalist, Natasha, to begin an investigation into a government cover-up. She and her crew Peter (producer), Steven (camera operator), and Tangles (audio engineer) decide to investigate the story and plan to enter the tunnels themselves. After being refused entry by a security guard, they find an alternate entry and make their way inside. They proceed to explore the tunnels and locate various abandoned homeless squats and sections used as air raid shelters in the 1940s.

They come upon a huge underground lake; and, while filming, Tangles hears strange noises through the audio headphones. Later, the group heads to the room where the World War II air raid bell is. To get footage of the bell's ringing, Natasha hits it; but Tangles says the sound's loudness is distorting the audio recording. He decides to take the boom-mike into an adjoining room to reduce the sound levels, leaving Peter with the headphones to listen for distortion in the bell volume. Natasha hits it again, and Peter hears something very disturbing in the headphones. Tangles' audio cable is suddenly pulled through the opening, snapping and disappearing. The rest of the crew panics and goes to look for Tangles.

The scene switches to the interview, where Natasha is allowed to hear this recording for the first time. As the sound of the bell plays, screams of agony can be clearly heard before the headphone wire snaps. Upon going back to the bell room minutes after they left, the crew finds that all their equipment has disappeared. While searching for Tangles, they find a room blocked off by corrugated metal. Natasha puts down her night-vision camera to help Peter and Steve. They get into the room and are horrified to find large amounts of still dripping blood, as well as Tangles' abandoned torch. At the entrance of the room, Natasha picks up the camera, noticing that it is not where she had left it. Reviewing the footage, it is revealed that something picked up the camera and is stalking them.

The crew ventures through the tunnel, trying to find a way out. They hear a person call down to them, and they come upon the security guard who had earlier refused them entry. The group tell him that one of their crew has gone missing, but the guard instead tells them to quickly follow him and get out, ignoring their pleas to help them find Tangles. Something pounces on the guard as he nears a corner, dragging him out of sight into another tunnel with incredible speed. The group flees, screaming in terror through the narrow tunnels. They hide in a room and stay there until they believe whatever the thing that grabbed the security guard has left the immediate surroundings. In an attempt to find a way out, they soon return to the underground lake. Hearing something nearby, they extinguish all light and use the night-vision camera to look toward the sound. There, they discover the security guard, his eyes missing, whimpering in pain in the shallows of the lake. The crew watches in horror as a tall, emaciated, demonic humanoid appears behind him and brutally murders him, slowly twisting his head until his neck breaks. Natasha lets out a scream, attracting the creature's attention; and the terrified group runs with the monster almost immediately giving chase after them.

They come to a dead-end with a barred opening into a street above them (which Natasha screams up into for help), but when that fails, the group continues searching for an exit. At one point, the creature attempts to grab Peter from an opening; however, when Steven shines the camera's light on it, the monster immediately retreats. Steven realizes that the beast is vulnerable to or afraid of light. Upon reaching another dead-end, Natasha discovers a side route blocked by planks of wood. Entering this new room, they find signs of some living being, as well as a small pile of human flesh. The main camera loses power, and Steve frantically attempts to replace the battery. Just as the power switches the light on again, the monster attacks, knocking Peter and Steven to the ground. Natasha, panic-stricken, runs off with the night-vision camera. On her own, she stays in silence but is confronted by the monster, who cracks the camera lens as it grabs at her, dragging her as the small camera still records. Steven and Peter follow the sound of her screams and the monster's movements.

Through the night-vision camera, it is shown that Natasha was dragged back to the lake. The monster attempts to drown Natasha; but before it can succeed, Steven and Peter use the light to chase it away. As Steven helps Natasha, Peter is heard in the distance screaming and challenging the monster, drawing it away from the other two. Steven manages to drag Natasha to a well-lit tunnel near a train station. They rush back and drag a badly-wounded Peter to the safety of the train platform. There, captured on CCTV, Natasha begs for help, and uses a borrowed cell phone to call the emergency services. The crew ends up staying in the tunnel all night.

In the epilogue, it is stated that the coroner found that Peter eventually died from extensive internal bleeding. Natasha resigned after the underground shoot, no longer working as a journalist. Steven still works as a news cameraman. Tangles' whereabouts remain unknown, and his family is still searching for answers. The police investigation was closed due to "contradictory evidence".

