In the tollbooth of a parking garage in East London, Martin Lomax is watching ''The Human Centipede (First Sequence)'', a film he is obsessed with, on his laptop. Short, obese, asthmatic, and mentally challenged, Martin lives in an unkempt council flat with his emotionally abusive mother, who blames him for having his father put in prison for physically, psychologically, and sexually abusing Martin when he was a boy. Dr. Sebring, Martin's psychiatrist, touches him inappropriately and prescribes him heavy medication. Martin keeps a pet centipede.

In an appointment with Dr. Sebring at home, Mrs. Lomax talks about her son's unsettling discussion about creating a twelve-person centipede. Dr. Sebring says that Martin's obsession with a twelve-person centipede and centipedes in general is a "phase", relating the pain of a centipede's bite and phallic shape to the sexual abuse he endured at the hands of his father. Mrs. Lomax remains resentful and apathetic towards Martin.

Martin acquires a dingy warehouse after killing the owner and landlord, and begins abducting people to use for a twelve-person human centipede. His victims include: Ian, an aggressive young man, and his girlfriend Kim; Alan, a businessman; Tim, a rich man and his pregnant wife Rachel; Valerie and Karrie, two drunk girls who catch Martin masturbating with sandpaper; and a man named Greg.

Martin's mother finds and destroys his scrapbook in disgust after unsuccessfully attempting a murder-suicide. When Mrs. Lomax attempts to dispose of his centipede, Martin kills her by bludgeoning her head with a crowbar. He then lures his detested neighbour, Dick, to the scene, before shooting and kidnapping him.

Back at the tollbooth, Martin catches on one of the CCTV security cameras Dr. Sebring and a cabbie named Paul having sex with a prostitute named Candy. Martin kills Sebring in a fit of rage after killing Paul. Martin's final victim is Ashlynn Yennie, the actress who played Jenny in ''The Human Centipede'', whom Martin lures under false pretenses of being Quentin Tarantino's casting agent.

Martin assembles his "centipede". Following his notes and sketches from ''The Human Centipede'', Martin severs the ligaments in each person's knees to prevent them from fleeing and uses a hammer to knock out their teeth. However, Martin cuts into the buttocks of Alan too deeply, causing him to bleed to death. Instead of surgical tools, he uses a staple gun and duct tape to attach each person's lips to the next person's buttocks. Rachel, who was planned to be the front of the centipede, is presumed dead; Martin places her in the corner. Martin's "human centipede" is ultimately ten people long with Ashlynn in front.

Martin experiments by having his centipede walk around and force-feeds Ashlynn chicken soup using the funnel and tube when she refuses to eat from the dog bowl. Disturbed by Ashlynn's screams, he tears her tongue out with pliers. He injects each victim with laxative, forcing them to evacuate their bowels into the mouth of the person behind them. He wraps his genitals in barbed wire and rapes Kim, who is the back of the centipede. Rachel awakens and runs outside screaming, in labour. She leaps into a victim's car and bears her second child. When Martin pursues her, she stomps on the accelerator, accidentally crushing her baby's skull in the process, and drives away.

The centipede separates into two halves. Furious that his centipede is ruined, Martin kills all the victims. As he hesitates to kill Ashlynn, she punches him in the crotch and shoves the funnel into his rectum, before dropping his pet centipede into it. Martin fatally stabs her in the neck and staggers out in agony.

The scene cuts back to the tollbooth with Martin rewatching the credits of ''The Human Centipede'' on his laptop, with exactly the same reaction as the initial scene.

