thumb|Film set at Berlin's [[Gendarmenmarkt in April 2003. The building doubles as a background building outside London's Royal Academy of Science.]]
Chinese thief Lau Xing robs the Bank of England and hides in Phileas Fogg's house, giving his name as "Passepartout"; Fogg hires him as his valet. He helps Fogg test his latest invention which breaks the {{convert|50|mph|km/h|adj=on}} speed barrier. 

At the Royal Academy of Science, Fogg is insulted by Lord Kelvin, head of the academy, who believes ambition and innovation to be an insult. Following a debate on the whereabouts of the thief, Kelvin makes a bet that Fogg cannot travel around the world in 80 days. If Fogg succeeds, he will replace Kelvin as Minister of Science. If not, he will be ruined. Fogg and Passepartout take a carriage out of London after a confrontation with corrupt Inspector Fix, hired by Kelvin.

Passepartout and Fogg journey to Paris, where Passepartout must evade General Fang's warriors. Fang wants the jade Buddha previously given to Lord Kelvin but stolen by Passepartout. Pretending to take Fogg to see Thomas Edison, Passepartout leads him to impressionist painting student Monique La Roche. Passepartout fights the warriors while his boss discusses impressionism. The two men and Monique depart in a hot-air balloon, chased by Fang's warriors.

The trio continue their journey by train. However, in Istanbul, they are forced to become guests of Prince Hapi's banquet. Whilst initially hospitable, he soon orders the men to leave while Monique must become his seventh wife. The men convince Hapi to release Monique or they will damage his personal statue of "The Thinker", which is accidentally smashed. With Hapi in pursuit, the three travelers then escape.

Kelvin learns about the bank robbery. He orders the British-colonial authorities in India to arrest both men. Passepartout sees notice of the price on his head and warns his companions. Disguised as women they are attacked by Fang's warriors. Using Inspector Fix and a sextant as weapons, Fogg and Passepartout defeat their assailants and flee to China.

In a Chinese village where Lau Xing had come from, Lanzhou, they are welcomed by Lau's family members. However, they are captured by the Black Scorpions. Recognized, Lau Xing challenges the leader of the group to a fight. At first, he fights alone and is defeated; moments later, he is joined by his fellow "Ten Tigers of Canton" to defeat the Black Scorpions. The jade Buddha is returned to the village temple.

Fogg desires to continue alone, disappointed and feeling used by his companions after finding out that through a picture of Lau and his family members in the village. He travels to San Francisco and is tricked out of his money. He is found destitute by Lau Xing and Monique who have followed him. In the Western desert, they find the Wright brothers who discuss their prototype flying machine. Fogg suggests a few changes, which are eagerly taken.

In New York City, a jubilant crowd prevents them from their ship. A policeman leads them to an ambush in a workshop. The three friends fight Fang and her warriors and win. Though Fogg could have gotten to the boat, he misses it to help Lau Xing. Fogg feels that he has lost, but the other two say that they may still make it if they catch the next ship.

They board an old ship and Fogg builds a plane out of the ship's old wood, promising a new ship to the captain. The ship's crew builds a catapult to launch it. The three fly to London and crash-land at the Royal Academy. Kelvin sends police to hinder them, and the clock strikes noon, ending the wager.

Kelvin proclaims himself the victor, but Monique, Fix and other ministers attest to his unfair methods. Kelvin insults Queen Victoria who overhears him and learns of his actions, which leads to his arrest. She then reveals that she has bet money on Fogg winning and congratulates him for making it back a day early. Fogg realizes that they forgot to take the International Date Line into account: Only 79 days have passed in London. Fogg ascends the stairs of the academy and kisses Monique, victorious in his bet.

