Team America, a paramilitary counterterrorist police force, eliminates a gang of terrorists in Paris, accidentally destroying the Eiffel Tower, Arc de Triomphe, and the Louvre in the process. The team includes Lisa, an idealistic psychologist; her love interest Carson; Sarah, a psychic; Joe, a jock who is in love with Sarah; and Chris, a martial arts expert who harbors a phobia towards actors. Carson proposes to Lisa, but a terrorist shoots him dead as he is doing it.

Team America leader Spottswoode brings Broadway actor Gary Johnston to Team America's base in Mount Rushmore and asks him to use his acting skills to infiltrate a terrorist cell. Unbeknownst to the team, North Korean dictator and terrorist mastermind Kim Jong Il is supplying international terrorists with weapons of mass destruction. Gary infiltrates a terrorist group in Cairo. The team is discovered and a chase ensues, with the team killing the terrorists. However, the city is left in ruins, drawing criticism from the Film Actors Guild ("F.A.G."), a union of liberal Hollywood actors led by Alec Baldwin.

At the base, Gary tells Lisa that as a child his acting talent caused his brother to be savagely killed by gorillas. While the two grow close and have sex, terrorists blow up the Panama Canal in retaliation for the Cairo operation, killing thousands. The Film Actors Guild blame this on Team America, as well as Kim chastising the terrorists for detonating one bomb too early. Gary, feeling his acting talents have again resulted in innocent people dying, resigns from Team America. The remaining members depart for the Middle East, but are defeated and captured by North Korean forces while Michael Moore blows up Team America's base in a suicide attack. In North Korea, Kim invites the Film Actors Guild and world leaders to a peace ceremony, planning to detonate several bombs around the world while they are distracted.

Succumbing to depression, Gary is reminded of his responsibility by a rambling speech from a drunken tramp. Returning to the team's base, he finds Spottswoode has survived Moore's bombing. After regaining Spottswoode's trust by giving him a blowjob and undergoing one-day training, Gary goes to North Korea, where he uses his acting skills to infiltrate the base and free the team, although Lisa is held hostage by Kim. The team is confronted by the Film Actors Guild and kill most of the actors in their ensuing fight. After Gary uses his acting skills to save Chris from Susan Sarandon, Chris confesses to Gary that the reason he dislikes actors is because he was gang-raped by the cast of the musical ''Cats'' when he was 19 years old.

The team crashes the peace ceremony and Gary goes on stage, delivering a recontextualized version of the tramp's speech—arguing that "dicks", though criticized by "pussies", are necessary to stop "assholes"—that convinces the world's leaders to unite. Kim betrays and kills Baldwin for being unable to counter Gary's argument, but he is kicked over a balcony by Lisa and impaled on the German delegate's Pickelhaube. Kim reveals his true form as an extraterrestrial cockroach and flees in a spaceship, vowing to return. Gary and Lisa happily begin a relationship and the team reunites, preparing to fight the world's terrorists once again.

