In 2010,<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.studiocanal.com/title/thunderbirds-2004/|title=''Thunderbirds'' (2004) – STUDIOCANAL|website=studiocanal.com|publisher=StudioCanal|access-date=18 July 2023}}</ref> the Tracy family, led by widowed former astronaut Jeff Tracy, operate International Rescue (IR), a secret organization that aids those in need during disasters using technologically advanced machines called Thunderbirds, operating out of Tracy Island in the South Pacific. Youngest son Alan attends Wharton Academy, a boarding school in Massachusetts, with his best friend Fermat Hackenbacker, son of the Thunderbirds’ resident engineer Brains, and dreams of being a Thunderbird pilot like his older brothers Scott, John, Virgil, and Gordon. 

Alan and Fermat are distracted by a news report following the Thunderbirds performing a rescue at a Russian oil rig. Unbeknownst to them, the Hood, a psychic criminal mastermind, has had one of his accomplices plant a tracking beacon on the hull of ''Thunderbird 1''. Lady Penelope Creighton-Ward, an IR agent, and her butler, Aloysius Parker, transport the pair home to Tracy Island in ''FAB 1''. The pair's unsuccessful attempt to fly ''Thunderbird 1'' alarms Jeff, who grounds Alan for the rest of spring break.

The Hood's submarine locates Tracy Island and fires a missile at the orbiting ''Thunderbird 5'', sending Jeff, Scott, Virgil and Gordon in ''Thunderbird 3'' to rescue John. The Hood and his team, led by Mullion and Transom, take over the island's command centre, imprisoning the Tracys in ''Thunderbird 5'' as their oxygen runs out. The Hood reveals that during one of International Rescue's first operations, Jeff abandoned him in a collapsing illegal diamond mine, but rescued his half-brother Kyrano, another Tracy Island resident. As revenge, he plans to use the ''Thunderbirds'' to rob ten of the world's major banks, thus plunging the international monetary system into chaos, with International Rescue held responsible and disgraced. 

Alan, Fermat and their friend Tin-Tin (Kyrano's daughter and Alan's crush), use a ventilation shaft to reach the Thunderbird silos. Fermat removes ''Thunderbird 2''{{-'}}s guidance chip, delaying the Hood's plan, and the trio flee into the island's jungle to find its remote transmitter. After Alan has a close encounter with a venomous scorpion, Tin-Tin displays psychic powers similar to her uncle's. 

Contacting Jeff at the remote transmitter on one of the island's hills, Alan insists on confronting the Hood, but Jeff tells them to wait until Lady Penelope arrives; before they can resolve the disagreement, Transom jams the signal. The trio flees from Mullion and his men, and Alan insists on escaping via a hovercraft with an attached trailer. Fermat and Tin-Tin's doubts are verified when the trailer breaks off, and they are captured.

Lady Penelope and Parker arrive, engaging the Hood's minions in combat, but the Hood defeats them with his powers. When Alan appears, the Hood forces him to give up the guidance chip and locks him and the others in the compound's walk-in freezer. The Hood, Mullion, and Transom pilot the now-repaired ''Thunderbird 2'' to London and use the Mole to sink a monorail line into the Thames and drill into the Bank of England’s vaults. Alan and company escape and contact Jeff and his older sons, who regain control of ''Thunderbird 5''. While the adults set out to stop the Hood, the teenagers and Lady Penelope fly to London in ''Thunderbird 1''.

Arriving in London, Alan and Tin-Tin rescue the submerged monorail car using the aquatic ''Thunderbird 4'' before pursuing the Hood. Together, Fermat, Tin-Tin, and Parker defeat the Hood's henchmen. The Hood locks Jeff and Lady Penelope in a vault and challenges Alan to defeat him. Alan dangles from a catwalk over the Mole, until Tin-Tin appears and defeats the Hood with her own powers. The Hood taunts Alan to let him die as his father did, but Alan rescues him, knowing that his father had actually tried unsuccessfully to save the Hood.

The Hood and his team are arrested, and International Rescue return to their island. Alan, Fermat, and Tin-Tin are inducted as official members of IR, and the film ends as Alan departs for his first mission alongside his brothers.

