Seiya is a street orphan searching for his sister Patricia, who has been kidnapped. During a fight with Cassios in a fighting ring, Seiya unleashes a strange blue light. After the fight, he meets with Docrates and Alman Kido. Kido warns Seiya that his ex-wife Vander Guraad is looking for him.

Guraad's warriors capture Docrates and pursue Seiya and Kido, who meet up with Mylock, Kido's assistant. Following a brief chase, Seiya, Mylock and Kido escape from the warriors. Seiya demands to know what is happening, but is knocked out by Mylock. Seiya recalls his sister's kidnapping while unconscious, and is later taken to Kido's hideout.

Kido informs Seiya that his adopted daughter Sienna is the reincarnation of the goddess Athena, and Seiya is destined to become the Pegasus Knight, a warrior knight for Athena. Patricia knew about Seiya's destiny and gave herself up to protect him. Kido tells Seiya that he should train under Marin the Silver Knight, so that he can use his Cosmo to protect himself and Sienna, and to find Patricia.

While having breakfast with Seiya, Sienna briefly loses control of her Cosmo, but Kido is able to calm her down. Meanwhile, Cassios beats up several of Guraad's powerful prototype soldiers, and accepts an offer from Guraad to become one as well in exchange for exacting revenge on Seiya.

Seiya and Sienna get to know each other, and she convinces him to go to Marin for training. Seiya goes with Mylock to the mountain where Marin resides, and climbs up the mountain alone to meet with her. Seiya's training initially goes poorly, as he is unable to channel his Cosmo properly, but he keeps training with Marin's help. That night, Sienna experiences a vision of herself as Athena destroying Seiya's armor and causing widespread destruction, which causes her to emit another Cosmo burst.

Seiya eventually gains control of his Cosmo. His pendant glows and unlocks his Pegasus armor, but he experiences a vision while bonding with the armor, revealing that Kido was present when Guraad took Patricia. Seiya returns to Kido's hideout to confront him, but Sienna takes him away from the mansion. She reveals that she destroyed Guraad's arms when she was young, forcing Guraad to drain Cosmo from children with it to stay alive, and that Guraad let Patricia go when she learned that Patricia did not have any Cosmo.

Guraad arrives at Kido's hideout after her subordinate Nero tortures its location out of Docrates. Seiya and Sienna return to the mansion. Seiya fights off Guraad's soldiers, but he fails to activate his Pegasus armor while fighting Cassios, resulting in him being beaten unconscious. Kido sets his estate to self-destruct in an effort to stop Guraad, and he dies in the explosion. Sienna is knocked unconscious and captured by Guraad's soldiers, and Seiya is unable to stop them.

Guraad admits to Sienna that she has given up on fixing herself, and proceeds to start depleting Sienna's Cosmo to prevent her becoming a threat to the world. Mylock rescues Seiya, who forgives himself for being unable to rescue Patricia when she was taken. Mylock and Seiya travel to Guraad's base, where Seiya unlocks his Pegasus armor and defeats Guraad's soldiers and Cassios.

Guraad becomes unable to watch Sienna be drained of her energy and tries to stop the procedure, but Nero turns against her and assumes his Phoenix Knight form. Nero and Seiya proceed to fight, but are interrupted by Sienna, who has almost completed her transformation into Athena, causing widespread destruction. With Seiya's help, Sienna manages to regain control, but falls unconscious afterwards.

When she wakes up, Sienna's hair has turned purple. Sienna and Guraad reconcile, and Sienna restores Guraad's arms. Sienna and Seiya leave the area with Mylock; Nero watches them leave. Sienna reveals that the old gods are returning, and the Knights of the Zodiac will be needed to stop them. She decides that they will need to find Patricia.

