In Crouch End, London, 29-year-old electronics salesman Shaun is disrespected by his colleagues, doesn't get along with his stepfather Philip, and is dumped by his girlfriend Liz after he unsuccessfully makes decent plans for a date to celebrate their anniversary. At his favourite pub, the Winchester, a heartbroken Shaun gets drunk with his slacker best friend, Ed. At home, Shaun and Ed's flatmate, Pete, complains of a bite wound from a mugger and berates Shaun into getting his life together.

The next morning, a zombie apocalypse has overwhelmed London. Shaun and Ed don't notice until they encounter two zombies in their garden, whom they beat to death with a shovel and cricket bat after throwing household implements and Shaun's record collection. They devise a plan to rescue Liz and Barbara, Shaun's mother, and then wait out the crisis at the Winchester. They escape from a now-zombified Pete in Pete's car and pick up Philip, who has been bitten, and Barbara. After Ed deliberately crashes Pete's car, they use Philip's Jaguar to fetch Liz and her flatmates, David and Dianne. Philip reconciles with Shaun before becoming a zombie.

Forced to abandon the car and their weapons, the group sneaks through the neighbourhood, running into a group led by Shaun's friend Yvonne. Shaun defends Barbara from a zombie, which he is forced to impale with a swingball pole. After imitating zombies to bypass a horde and reach the Winchester, Shaun and Ed argue when Ed answers his mobile phone, attracting the zombies' attention. As a panicked David panics breaks a window to the Winchester, Shaun is forced to lure the horde away using himself as bait. As the group takes refuge inside the Winchester, Shaun discovers that the zombies followed him, and Ed inadvertently attracts them by playing on the pub's arcade machine. Whilst fighting the pub's zombified owner, Shaun discovers that the Winchester rifle above the bar is functional. Barbara reveals she was bitten, and dies after giving Liz and Shaun's relationship her approval. David attempts to shoot Barbara, but Shaun stops him, accusing David of hating him and being in love with Liz, which Dianne admits she knows is true. Barbara becomes a zombie, forcing a distraught Shaun to shoot her. Further fighting ensues after David states that Shaun was right to shoot Barbara.

The zombies break into the pub and devour David. Dianne rushes into the horde brandishing David's detached leg, allowing the horde to enter. The zombified Pete reappears and bites Ed, before Shaun shoots and kills Pete. Shaun, Liz and Ed take cover behind the bar which Shaun sets ablaze; the shells left on the bar ignite, killing several zombies by chance. The three take refuge in the cellar, where, upon realising they only have two bullets left, Shaun and Liz contemplate suicide while Ed elects to be devoured by the zombies. Upon discovering a keg lift that opens out onto the street, Shaun and Liz exit the pub while Ed volunteers to stay with the rifle as the zombies break in. The British Army arrive with Yvonne, gun down the horde and take Shaun and Liz to safety.

Six months later, civilisation has returned to normal while surviving zombies are used for cheap labour and entertainment. Liz has moved in with Shaun, who keeps the now-zombified Ed tethered in his garden shed, where they play video games together.

