Eight years after the events of the first film, Dr. Vaseegaran creates an android humanoid assistant named Nila which he introduces to a group of college students while reminiscing about Chitti, his previous creation, which was dismantled after the robot had gone on a murderous rampage. Shortly afterwards, all the mobile phones in the city fly into the sky, causing a public panic. A council of politicians and scientists discusses the phenomenon, with Vaseegaran suggesting that Chitti be reactivated, but a council member named Dhinendra Bohra opposes the idea, as Chitti killed his father.

The mobile phones swarm and kill several people, forcing the Home Minister to allow Vaseegaran to reactivate Chitti. An upgraded Chitti fights the giant bird-shaped swarm as it wreaks havoc in the city. Chitti runs out of power and recharges on a space station. The swarm tries to follow but is repelled by the station's antennas.

Chitti and Vaseegaran confirms that the phones are powered by a concentrated mass of negative charge with electromagnetic properties which was repelled by the positive charged ions streaming from the antennas. Vaseegaran builds a photon synthesizer and uses it to neutralise the charge of the bird with Chitti's help. The defeated phones take on the form of a deceased ornithologist, Pakshi Rajan.

Chitti converses with Pakshi and learns how Pakshi lost all attempts to warn the public about the harmful effects of cell phone radiation on birds, forcing him to commit suicide, after which he returned as a vengeful spirit made of negative charge. Sympathising with Pakshi, Chitti tries to convince him not to harm the public, but Pakshi refuses, wanting to avenge the deaths of his birds. Chitti captures and contains Pakshi, earning praise from the country. The government commissions Vaseegaran to produce more robots to support the army.

Angered at Chitti's victory, Dhinendra releases Pakshi's spirit, which possesses Vaseegaran and causes chaos again. Chitti confronts a possessed Vaseegaran's but refuses to harm him, allowing Pakshi to disassemble Chitti and fly away. On Vaseegaran's orders, Nila retrieves the red chip that had caused Chitti to go on a rampage eight years ago. Nila restores Chitti and embeds the red chip in it after reprogramming it to make Chitti target only Pakshi and not the public. Pakshi traps thousands of people in a football stadium and kills Dhinendra by focusing radiation from cell towers. Chitti, with an army of robots, arrives and fights Pakshi but eventually loses power. Pakshi creates bird drones to attack, but before he can kill the people in the stadium, Chitti's small robot, Kutti 3.0, intervenes and destroys the bird drones, forcing the villain to stand down.

After Vaseegaran is freed from possession, Pakshi is led to the station and destroyed there. Vaseegaran suggests reducing and controlling cell phone radiation to protect living beings, and the Home Minister promises to take action. Chitti and Nila leave with the other robots to serve the government. In a post-credits scene, Vaseegaran's phone transforms into Kutti 3.0, calling itself his grandson.

