On June 21, 2028, a riot breaks out in Los Angeles over the city's water privatization. Taking advantage of the chaos, professional criminal Sherman attempts a bank robbery that leaves half his team dead with his brother Lev and another accomplice critically wounded. During the robbery, Lev takes a fancy pen from a well-dressed bank customer (amongst gardeners and maids) who tells Lev he is making a terrible mistake. They escape to the nearby Hotel Artemis, an underground hospital funded by its criminal clientele, which is run by Jean "The Nurse" Thomas. Confined inside the hotel for 22 years by her severe agoraphobia and grief over the death of her son, Beau, Thomas adheres to the strict set of rules for the hospital, including "No weapons", "No non-members", and "No killing of other guests".

Sherman and Lev are admitted while their accomplice is forcibly ejected by Thomas' orderly, Everest. Lev, given the codename "Honolulu", undergoes the hotel's technologically advanced treatment, including robot-assisted surgery and 3D printed transplant organs. Thomas shows Sherman evidence that his brother Lev is a drug addict.

Sherman encounters the hotel's other guests: "Acapulco", an obnoxious arms dealer, and "Nice", an international assassin and old acquaintance. As the riot draws nearer, Thomas receives word that notorious crime lord Orian "The Wolfking" Franklin, who is also the owner of the Artemis, is en route with a Code Red. Thomas' preparations are complicated by the arrival of a wounded police officer named Morgan, a childhood friend of Thomas' late son, begging for help. Against Everest's warnings and Thomas' own rules, they admit Morgan.

Through aid from Nice, Sherman discovers the pen Lev stole is marked with the Wolfking's symbol and conceals diamonds worth over $18 million. The Wolfking has a strict policy of killing those who steal from him by dumping them in the ocean. Acapulco learns that Nice has been hired to kill the Wolfking; she incapacitates Acapulco and plants a bomb on the hotel's door lock power generator.

The wounded Wolfking arrives and is admitted, but his men and son Crosby must wait in the lobby's gated ante-room. Everest sneaks Morgan out of the hotel after finishing treatment of her wounds. Fearful of being discovered, Sherman prepares to fight the Wolfking's men until his brother is stable enough to move. 

While administering to the Wolfking, Thomas discovers that he was responsible for her son's death. The police reported he died due to an overdose, instead of the truth, her son was killed after attempting to steal the Wolfking's car. The Wolfking paid the police to lie about her son's death and he used the tragedy to recruit Nurse Thomas to run Hotel Artemis. Thomas prepares to kill the Wolfking, but is diverted when Nice's bomb disrupts the power and Lev's life support. While Thomas struggles to save Lev, Nice kills the Wolfking. Lev dies and Sherman confronts Nice, but the two are attacked by Acapulco; Sherman is shot but manages to kill him.

As rioters storm the streets outside, Thomas, Sherman, and Nice make their way out of the hotel, while Everest stays behind to stave off the Wolfking's men; Nice then covers Thomas and Sherman's escape. The two are met by Crosby, but kill him and make their way through the riot to Sherman's getaway car. Thomas decides to stay to give medical aid to the rioters, but tells Sherman of another hotel, the Apache in Las Vegas, before he drives off.

Everest, the last man standing at the Artemis, turns on the hotel's sign as Thomas walks away from the hotel.

In a mid-credits scene, a shadowy figure runs across the screen, suggesting Nice may have also survived.

