Baby is a getaway driver in Atlanta. As a child, he survived a car crash that killed his parents and left him with tinnitus. He finds catharsis in music, typically using iPods to soothe his tinnitus. Baby ferries crews of robbers assembled by criminal mastermind Doc as recompense for theft of a car containing Doc's illicit goods. In leisure, he remixes snippets of conversations he records and cares for his deaf foster father, Joseph. He meets a waitress named Debora, and they start dating. 

Baby's next robbery goes awry after an armed military bystander chases them down, but Baby evades him and the police. Having paid his debt, Baby quits his life of crime and starts delivering pizzas. Doc interrupts Baby's date with Debora and insists he join a post office heist, threatening to hurt Debora and Joseph should he refuse. The crew consists of easygoing Buddy, his sharpshooter wife Darling, and trigger-happy Bats, who had taken a dislike to Baby during their previous time working together. When the team attempts to purchase illegal firearms, Bats recognizes one of the dealers as a covert operative and opens fire. They kill most of the dealers. 

Afterward, Bats makes Baby stop at Debora's diner, unaware of their romance. Baby, aware of Bats's homicidal habit, prevents him from killing her to avoid paying. Doc is furious, revealing that the dealers were corrupt cops on his payroll. He decides to cancel the heist, but the crew overrule him. Baby attempts to slip away late that night, hoping to take Debora and leave Atlanta, but he is stopped by Buddy and Bats, who have discovered his recordings and believe he is an informant. Baby convinces them and Doc of his innocence by playing them a tape of one of his remixes. However, a second tape reveals a prior conversation with Debora.

During the heist, Bats kills a security guard. Disgusted, Baby refuses to drive away, causing Bats to hit him. Baby rams the car into some rebar that impales Bats, killing him; Baby, Buddy, and Darling flee on foot. When Darling is killed in a shootout with police, Buddy blames Baby for her death and vows to kill him. Baby steals a car and flees to his apartment. After leaving Joseph at an assisted living home with his heist earnings, he rushes to get Debora at the diner, where he finds Buddy waiting for him. Baby shoots him and flees with Debora as police swarm the restaurant. 

Back at the safe house, Doc initially refuses to let Baby take back one of his tapes, even though it only contains his mother singing, but relents when Debora arrives to console Baby. Doc supplies the couple with cash and an escape route out of the country, saying he was also in love once. The police who survived the arms deal confront Baby, Debora and Doc in the parking garage, and Doc kills them all. Buddy then arrives and kills Doc, and a cat-and-mouse game ensues until Buddy has Baby at his mercy. He fires a gun next to each of Baby's ears, temporarily deafening him, before Debora hits Buddy with a crowbar. 

Baby shoots Buddy in the leg, who then falls to his death. Debora flees the scene with Baby. The next day, they encounter a police roadblock, and he decides to surrender. At his trial, Joseph, Debora, and other people affected by his crimes testify in Baby's defense, citing his acts of compassion and mercy. He is sentenced to 25 years in prison, subject to a parole hearing after five years. Debora stays in contact with Baby during his incarceration, and she discovers that his real name is Miles. 

In the final scene, Baby closes his eyes while fixing a Route 66 postcard to his cell mirror. In a dreamlike, black-and-white shot, the prison gates open on the day of his release, and Debora is waiting outside with a vintage car. The shot transitions to full color before Baby and Debora embrace.

