Dominic "Dom" Toretto and Letty Ortiz are on their honeymoon in Havana when Dom's cousin Fernando gets in trouble owing money to local racer Raldo. Sensing Raldo is a loan shark, Dom challenges Raldo to a race, pitting Fernando's 1949 Chevrolet Fleetline against Raldo's 1956 Ford Fairlane Crown Victoria, and wagering his own 1961 Chevrolet Impala. After narrowly winning the race, Dom allows Raldo to keep his car, saying his respect is enough. 

The next day, an elusive woman named Cipher coerces Dom into working for her by showing him something on her phone. Shortly afterward, Diplomatic Security Service (DSS) agent Luke Hobbs is given an off-the-books mission to retrieve an EMP device from a military outpost in Berlin, and is warned that he will face arrest if captured. Hobbs recruits Dom and his team, comprising Letty, Roman Pearce, Tej Parker, and Ramsey, to help him retrieve the device. 

During the getaway, Dom forces Hobbs off the road and steals the device for Cipher, who is a cyberterrorist. Hobbs is arrested and confined in the same high-security prison which holds Deckard Shaw. They initiate a prison escape and are recruited by intelligence operative Mr. Nobody and his protégé, Little Nobody, to help the team find Dom and capture Cipher. When Hobbs and the team protest working with Deckard, he reveals that Cipher had hired his brother Owen to steal the Nightshade device and Mose Jakande to steal God's Eye, Ramsey's software program.{{efn|As depicted in ''Fast & Furious 6'' (2013) and ''7'' (2015)}} The team tracks Dom and Cipher to their own location, moments before the two attack the base, injure the team and steal God's Eye. 

When Dom shows frustration with Cipher, she shows him his ex-lover and DSS agent Elena Neves, and their son, of whose existence Dom was unaware, having kidnapped both to secure his loyalty. Cipher sends Dom to retrieve a nuclear football held by the Russian Minister of Defense in New York City. With the help of Raldo, Dom briefly evades Cipher, and persuades Deckard and Owen's mother, Magdalene, to help him, offering to arrange the Shaw brothers' freedom from government custody if they rescue his son from Cipher's plane. Cipher hacks into the electronics systems of many cars, remotely controlling them via auto drive, causing them to blockade the convoy so that Dom can take the football. 

The team intercepts Dom in their cars, but Dom escapes and seemingly kills Deckard. Letty catches up to Dom and steals the football, but is nearly killed by Cipher's enforcer, Connor Rhodes, before Dom stops him and forces the football from Letty. In retaliation, Cipher lets Rhodes execute a tied up Elena in front of Dom, threatening his son next. Dom infiltrates a military separatist base in Russia to use the EMP device to disable security and a nuclear submarine, enabling Cipher to hijack it and attempt to use its arsenal to trigger a nuclear war. 

They are intercepted by the team, who shut down the submarine's nuclear weapons and drive toward the gates that would prevent the sub from leaving to sea, while being pursued by separatists. Deckard, who faked his death with the help of Magdalene and Dom's former crew members Leo and Santos, teams up with Owen and infiltrates Cipher's plane to rescue Dom's son. Once Deckard reports that the child is safe, Dom turns on Cipher and kills Rhodes before rejoining his team. Cipher fires an infrared homing missile at Dom's Charger, but he breaks away from his team and lures the missile to the trailing submarine. 

The team forms a vehicular blockade and shields Dom from the explosion as the submarine is destroyed. After killing all of Cipher's henchmen, Deckard reaches the front of the plane and confronts Cipher, who escapes by parachute, while Owen holds the pilot at gunpoint and forces him to land the plane. Mr. Nobody and his protégé visit Dom and his team in New York City to report that Cipher is still at large. Hobbs has his record cleared and is offered his DSS job back, but he declines and chooses to spend more time with his daughter. Deckard delivers Dom his son, putting his differences aside with Dom and Hobbs, and is accepted into their family. Dom names his son Brian and celebrates with his friends.

