Sook-hee, a highly skilled assassin, enters a hallway and kills numerous people before being surrounded by cops and smiling. Later, Sook-Hee is drugged and taken to South Korea's intelligence agency, which provides her with plastic surgery. To give her a new start, they also fake her death and assign her a new name: Chae Yeon-soo. 

Yeon-soo learns that she is pregnant, and the agency's leader, Kwon-sook, offers her freedom if she trains with them and works as their agent for ten years. She accepts and while in training, gives birth to a daughter, Eun-hye. Having completed her first assignment, Yeon-soo is given an apartment to share with her daughter. Unknown to Yeon-soo, Kwon-sook places an agent named Jung Hyun-soo in the apartment next door, who is to befriend Yeon-soo and keep tabs on her. After a few meetings, Yeon-soo and Hyun-soo fall for each other. Later, Yeon-soo is sent on her first "assignment". The target she kills turns out to be the father of a young girl. This triggers the memories of her past

'''Past''': A 7 year old Sook-Hee witnesses her father's death but does not get a look at the killer's face; she only hears him whistling. Years later, Sook-Hae tries to kill Jang-Chun, a man with yellow teeth, believing him to be the killer, but gets captured and beaten. While beating her, Jang-Chun tells her he did not kill her father. He eventually sells Sook-hee to a prostitution ring. She is about to be assaulted by a client when someone named Lee Joong-sang arrives and rescues her, while also killing Jang-Chun.

Joong-sang decides to train Sook-hee to be a killing machine, and she becomes devoted to him. The two eventually get married. Sook-hee is willing to let go of her thirst for revenge if she can live a normal life with him. Seeing his trained assassin would no longer be of much use, Joong-sang sets up an act. While on their honeymoon, he fakes saving a gang member called Choi Chun-Mo and stages his own death. When Sook-hee learns about Joong-sang's "death", she goes on a killing rampage and takes out a whole gang that was known to hate Joong-sang. Joong-sang expects her to die killing his rivals, but they end up being no match for her.

'''Present''': While on a mission with another agent named Min-ju, Yeon-soo is caught stealing a phone. Min-ju is killed in the ensuing fight. The stolen phone contains documents about Choi Chun-Mo and the agency is worried that since Yeon-soo knew him, she may be a double-agent. Hyun-soo comforts her and this brings them closer together. The agency wants Yeon-soo to kill her next target from a wedding catering company, so they arrange a wedding between her and Hyun-soo. Aiming her rifle out a window, Yeon-soo finds out her target is Joong-sang. 

Shocked that he is still alive, she fails to kill him. Joong-sang backtracks the location from which he was attacked and identifies Yeon-soo as Sook-hee. He meets with her and reveals that Hyun-soo is actually an undercover agent. Joong-sang's gang meets Hyun-soo and Eun-hye. Hyun-soo reveals that Eun-hye is, in fact, Joong-sang's daughter, hoping for all the killings to stop. However, Joong-sang does not care about this revelation and plants a bomb near them. While reaching her apartment, Yeon-soo watches the bomb go off. Hyun-soo and her daughter die. 

Consumed with revenge, Yeon-soo tracks down Joong-sang to a parking garage and kills many of his men. She confronts Joong-sang, who escapes to the street and meets with his remaining henchmen. They all speed off in a shuttle bus. Yeon-soo chases after them, boards the bus and holds an axe over Joong-sang's head. He puts his head down and starts whistling the same tune she heard when her father died, revealing that Joong-sang is his killer. Yeon-soo kills him with the axe. Before walking out of the wreckage with the police surrounding her, Yeon-soo smiles.

