NSA Agent Augustus Gibbons attempts to recruit footballer Neymar for the Triple-X (XXX) program when a satellite crashes, apparently killing them both. Shortly afterwards, a team of four skilled individuals led by Xiang infiltrate a highly guarded CIA office in New York City and retrieve "Pandora's Box", a device which is capable of controlling satellites to crash at specific locations as warheads. 

CIA Agent Jane Marke tracks down former xXx operative Xander Cage, who faked his death{{Efn|as depicted in The Final Chapter: The Death of Xander Cage}}, and has been living in self-imposed exile in the Dominican Republic. She convinces him to return to active service to retrieve the device.

In London, after enlisting his old friend Ainsley for help, Xander tracks down the attackers to the Philippines. At an RAF outpost in Lakenheath, a unit of Special Forces operatives led by Paul Donovan is assigned to help Xander, but he rejects them in favor of his own team, composed of sharpshooter Adele Wolff, DJ Harvard "Nicks" Zhou, and getaway driver Tennyson "The Torch". They are also aided by introverted weapons specialist Becky Clearidge. 

The team locates Xiang and his teammates Serena, Talon and Hawk, and Xander meets Xiang in an underground nightclub on a remote island, where Xiang reveals that his team are also xXx agents, recruited by Gibbons. He claims to have stolen Pandora's Box to prevent its misuse, although Serena believes they should destroy it. Shortly after, Russian soldiers raid the island. The group fends off the attackers, while Xiang escapes with Pandora's Box. Xander intercepts him chasing him to a nearby beach. Serena betrays him, destroys the Box, and joins Xander's team, while Xiang escapes and regroups with Talon and Hawk. 

After another satellite crash in the Olympic Stadium in Moscow, Marke determines that the device that Serena destroyed was only a prototype and that both teams have been wasting time, while Xander discovers CIA Director Anderson is involved and has the actual Pandora's Box in his hands.

Xander's and Xiang's teams race to reach Anderson first in Detroit, tracking Pandora's Box's unique signal, with Xander and Xiang fighting and later protecting each other from Anderson's men. Xander confronts Anderson, who admits to causing the satellite crash that killed Gibbons before Wolff shoots him dead. Xander reluctantly allows the CIA to arrest Xiang in an attempt to frame him for the Moscow attack, and they secure the box. 

En route back to headquarters, Marke announces the XXX Program has been shut down and shoots Xander to keep it for herself. She then sends a group of assassins to eliminate the others, who are awaiting extraction at a local NSA warehouse. They join forces to fend off their attackers and receive assistance from former XXX operative, Darius Stone.

Xander survives due to a bulletproof vest Becky had given him earlier and joins forces with Xiang to fight Donovan and his men, while Marke uses the box to send a satellite plummeting towards the warehouse where the teams are fighting. Xander ejects Donovan from the plane, while Xiang sends Marke falling to her death and then parachutes out with the box in hand. Despite Becky's attempts to halt the signal, they cannot stop the satellite from crashing. In a last attempt to protect them, Xander crashes the plane into the approaching satellite before it reaches the warehouse and jumps out, using the cargo load to safely reach the ground. Xiang gives him the device, who decides to destroy it. 

The team attends Gibbons' funeral, where Xander is approached by Gibbons himself, who faked his death and is now rebuilding the XXX Program on his own, starting with Neymar, who also faked his death, as the newest recruit. Gibbons compliments Xander on a job well done, so he decides to continue in service, while also being introduced to Darius Stone, who previously served as a XXX agent in Cage's absence.

