In 1989, 17-year-old star athlete Mike O'Donnell finds out that his girlfriend, Scarlet Porter, is pregnant. Scarlet tells Mike about her pregnancy moments before his likely scholarship-clinching high-school championship basketball game. Mike plays the first few seconds of the game before walking off the court to go after Scarlet, abandoning his hopes of going to college and achieving a career. Twenty years later, 37-year-old Mike finds his life stagnant and boring; he abandons any project he starts. Scarlet, now Mike's wife and the mother of their two children, has filed for divorce. Mike moves in with his best friend, Ned Gold, who is wealthy, geeky, and unhappy. Mike has quit his job after being passed over for a promotion he believed he deserved, and his high-school-age kids, 18-year-old Maggie and 16-year-old Alex, want nothing to do with him. While driving, Mike has an encounter with a janitor on a bridge that transforms him back into his 17-year-old self.

After becoming convinced of Mike's identity, Ned believes that Mike's transformation was caused by a mystical spirit guide who is trying to steer him on a better path. Mike enrolls in high school by posing as Mark Gold, Ned's son. He plans to go to college on a basketball scholarship. As Mike befriends his own son, Alex, he discovers that Alex is being bullied. Mike also learns that his daughter, Maggie, has a boyfriend named Stan who does not respect her and frequently torments Alex. Mike comes to believe that his mission is to help his kids.

Through their kids, Mike spends time with Scarlet, who notes his remarkable resemblance to her husband but rationalizes it as an odd coincidence. Attempting to fix his relationship with Scarlet, Mike begins to finish all the garden projects he had abandoned as an adult. He does his best to separate Stan and Maggie while encouraging Alex to be more confident. Mike has difficulty resisting his desire for Scarlet despite the relationship's clear inappropriateness.

Mike throws a party to celebrate a basketball game win at Ned's house. He confronts Stan, who has recently dumped Maggie for refusing to have sex with him. Mike gets knocked out and wakes up to Maggie trying to seduce him. Mike tells Maggie that he is in love with someone else, and Maggie leaves, much to Mike's relief. Scarlet arrives at the party, and Mike shows her that Alex has finally managed to get together with his crush. The two have an intimate conversation where Mike, caught up in the moment, tries to kiss Scarlet. Disgusted, she storms off as Mike tries unsuccessfully to explain his true identity.

On the day of the court hearing to finalize the divorce, Mike makes one last attempt to win Scarlet back (as Mark) by reading a supposed letter from Mike. After he exits, Scarlet notices that the "letter" is actually directions to the courtroom; she begins to grow curious and postpones the divorce by a month. Frustrated that he could not salvage his marriage, Mike decides to once again pursue a scholarship and move on with a new life. During a high school basketball game, Mike reveals himself to Scarlet. As Scarlet runs away, Mike decides to chase her down, just like he did in 1989. Mike is then transformed back into his 37-year-old self. He happily reunites with Scarlet, saying that she is the best decision he ever made.

As Mike prepares for his first day as the new basketball coach at his kids' school, Ned—who has successfully started a relationship with Jane—gifts him a whistle. Both are happy with the fresh starts in their lives.

