Coraline Jones has to adapt to life in the Pink Palace apartments, an old house in Ashland, Oregon, after moving from Pontiac, Michigan. Her stay-at-home parents, Charlie and Mel, have to work and ignore her. She crosses paths with a black cat and Wyborne (or "Wybie"), the landlady's grandson, who leaves her a ragdoll lookalike. It leads Coraline to a small door with a brick wall behind it. That night, a jumping mouse leads Coraline back to the door, now a portal leading to the Other World, an alternate universe where her parents' button-eyed doppelgängers lavish her with food and attention.

Upon waking, Coraline has returned to the real world. Wybie recounts how his great aunt disappeared. Coraline meets the other residents of the Pink Palace: upstairs, the Amazing Bobinsky, an eccentric Russian liquidator-turned-gymnast who owns a mouse circus; and downstairs, retired burlesque performers April Spink and Miriam Forcible. Bobinsky and Ms. Spink (who reads tea leaves for Coraline) warn her about the Other World.

Coraline goes back nonetheless by purposely baiting the jumping mice with cheese and sees that her Other Father has a wonderful garden. The Other Wybie, who is mute, accompanies her to see the Other Bobinsky's dancing circus mice. When Coraline returns again to the Other World, this time during the day, the cat tells her he can traverse the two worlds. She watches the Others Ms. Spink and Forcible perform. Afterwards, the Other Mother offers to let her stay permanently if she has buttons sewn over her eyes which horrifies Coraline. She desperately tries to fall asleep and even after waking remains in the Other World. When she tries to escape back through the door to her world, the Other Mother half-transforms into an arachnid-like form and imprisons her by throwing her into a mirror that leads to a dark room.

There, three ghost children, including Wybie's great aunt, tell Coraline how ''the Beldam'' (the Other Mother) used the ragdolls to spy on them. After sewing buttons over their eyes, the Beldam devoured their souls. Coraline can free them by retrieving the essences of their souls, trapped in the "eyes" of the ghost children. After promising to help them, the Other Wybie helps her return home.

The Beldam has kidnapped her parents, forcing Coraline to return to the Other World with a Ouija planchette from Ms. Spink. The cat suggests Coraline propose a game: if she can find her parents and the three "eyes", the Beldam will let them all go free; if not, Coraline will finally accept the Beldam's offer. As Coraline finds each "eye", parts of the Other World turn lifeless as the entire dimension gradually disintegrates. During the search, Coraline encounters the clothes that the Other Wybie was wearing on a flag pole, implying that the Beldam killed him for helping her escape before.

The Beldam has assumed her final form. The ghost of Wybie's great aunt warns that the Beldam will not honor her bargain. Coraline tricks her into opening the door to the real world by claiming that Coraline's parents are behind it. Coraline throws the cat at her and takes the snow globe with her imprisoned parents, and the cat claws out the Beldam's eyes. As a last resort, the Beldam creates a giant spider's web in the floor. Coraline narrowly escapes through the door, severing the Beldam's hand.

The snow globe back home is broken and Coraline reunites with her parents. They have no recollection of the ordeal, but having finished their writing, they are nice to Coraline. Her mother buys her the gloves that she always wanted and they do plan a garden party. That night, the freed ghosts warn Coraline that the Beldam is trying to get the key to the small door. When Coraline goes to the well to get rid of it, the Beldam's severed hand attacks her, trying to pull her back to the small door in the house. Wybie comes to the rescue and destroys the hand with a large rock, so that they can finally get rid of the key. The next day, all the residents of the Pink Palace apartments come to the party. Wybie brings his grandmother, so that Coraline can reveal her missing sister's fate.

