Since 1945, various countries have set up Divisions to track, categorize and experiment on people with psychic abilities to turn them into soldiers.

10 years ago, two Movers, Jonah Gant, and his young son Nick are pursued by the U.S. Division. Jonah instructs Nick to help a girl who gives him a flower in the future. A team led by Division agent Henry Carver, a Pusher, kills Jonah, but Nick escapes.

In the present, the U.S. Division has developed a drug that can boost psychic abilities, but all test subjects died until Pusher Kira Hudson successfully adapted to it. She steals a syringe of the drug and flees, aided by another woman in the facility. Carver orders the Division to capture Kira and retrieve the syringe.

Meanwhile, Nick has moved to Hong Kong, a common hiding place for psychics. Nick's powers are blunted from rare usage, and he incurs debt when his powers fail to help him cheat in gambles. Division Sniffers Mack and Holden visit Nick to look for Kira but find no trace. Nick is visited immediately after by Cassie, a moody teenage Watcher, who also wants Nick to help find Kira. At a market, Nick and Cassie are confronted by a triad, who are also looking for Kira. The Triad Bleeders wound Nick, and Cassie calls in a favor from Stitch Teresa to heal him. Nick realizes Cassie is the girl he is supposed to help. Mack and Holden capture Kira in Hong Kong, but she ''Pushes'' Mack to kill Holden and escapes. Carver dismisses Mack, but Mack insists on continuing, so Carver ''Pushes'' Mack to kill himself.

Nick and Cassie track down Kira with the assistance of Shifter Hook Waters and Sniffer Emily Wu. Kira has hidden the syringe and had Wiper Wo Chiang erase her memory of its location, protecting it from Division agents. Nick recruits Shadow Pinky Stein to hide Kira from the Division. Nick and Kira, who are former lovers, reconcile and kiss. Nick tracks down Carver with Emily's assistance, and attempts an ambush. Carver reveals that Kira will eventually die without more of the drug, which only Carver has. Carver's right-hand man, Victor, defeats Nick. Cassie convinces Carver to spare Nick. Cassie finds a key in Kira's shoe which unlocks the locker containing the syringe.

Aided by Cassie, Nick plans and writes instructions for his allies, then has his memory of them erased by Wo Chiang. Hook creates a duplicate of the syringe, while Pinky delivers Kira to Carver as part of the plan. Teresa betrays Nick to the triad, passing Hook's duplicate syringe to them, before Nick defeats her. Carver influences Kira to believing that she was a Division agent and that her relationship with Nick was a cover. Cassie is ambushed by the triad's Pop Girl, only for Wo Chiang to appear and erase Pop Girl's memory per Nick's instructions.

Nick visits Carver to trade the syringe for Kira, only to discover she had been brainwashed and is restrained. Kira, Carver, and Victor visit a construction site to retrieve the syringe, but the Triad ambushes them, leading a battle that kills many Triad members and inadvertently frees Nick, who also joins the battle. Victor is killed by the triad leader, whom Nick defeats. Nick seizes the syringe and injects himself with it. Believing the drug will kill him, Carver leaves with Kira. After they leave, Cassie appears, revealing that Nick is alive, as he used a syringe with a fake drug. They retrieve the real syringe and discuss using it to free Cassie's Watcher mother from the Division, who hatched the entire plan to take down the Division before Cassie was born. 

Later, Kira discovers her unopened envelope, which contains a photograph proving her relationship with Nick was real, with an instruction to kill Carver. Kira ''Pushes'' Carver to shoot himself.

