Due to the Philippine Drug War, most of the country's barangays have been drug free. Drug dealer Teban (Alex Calleja) is interrogated by Detective Dela Cruz (Lao Rodriguez) and Detective Alvarez (Nonie Buencamino), trying to find out the location of big-time drug lord Biggie Chen (Arjo Atayde). Upon learning that Chen is hiding at the Barangay ''Gracia ni Maria'' in Tondo, Manila, the authorities launch a "buy-bust" operation to capture Chen.

Rookie police officer Nina Manigan (Anne Curtis) joins a new anti-narcotic elite squad of the PDEA after surviving the slaughter of her entire former squad in a drug raid compromised by corrupt cops. Her new squad is chosen to conduct the mission against Chen; the entrapment is to take place in Plaza Rajah Sulayman. Teban is used as a bait to lure Chen, but the latter did not appear.

The squad then proceeds to the slums of ''Gracia'' and split up into the Alpha and Bravo teams. Inside, Teban meets with Chongki (Levi Ignacio) to take him over to Chen. However, the operation was revealed as bait to massacre the PDEA officers. The Bravo team is slaughtered, leaving Dela Cruz as the only survivor. The Alpha team, led by Lacson, fall back but find themselves trapped by slum settlers and drug mafias in which they must fight their way out. Manigan then kills Dela Cruz upon finding out that he is a part of the illegal trade.

Fed up with the relentless operations conducted by authorities, the dwellers of ''Gracia'' erupted into a violent riot against the PDEA officers and the drug lords. In the ensuing chaos, Rico, Bernie, Teban, Chongki, Solomon, Manok and hundreds of other civilians are killed amid the riots and the gunfights. In the aftermath, Chen is captured, and Manigan, who ends up as being the sole survivor of her squad, finds out that Detective Alvarez was the one behind the illegal drug trade from Chen. While in police custody, Manigan notices Alvarez talking with someone over the phone regarding "loose ends". After the phone conversation, Alvarez kills Chen; Manigan wrestles for Alvarez' gun then kills him and his men, she shoots her leg on purpose then places the gun on Chen's lifeless body and takes the phone that Alvarez was using for possible evidence. When other PDEA agents ask Manigan what happened, she stated that the Chen "fought back". The film ends with the news stating that "only 13 people" died during the encounter while the camera glides upon hundreds of dead bodies.

