Robert McCall still lives in Boston, where he works as a driver for Lyft and assists the less fortunate with the help of his close friend and former DIA colleague Susan Plummer. Robert travels to Istanbul to retrieve the kidnapped 9-year-old daughter of bookstore owner, Grace Braelick. With the assistance of Susan, Robert gathers information for Sam Rubinstein, an elderly Holocaust survivor looking to recover a painting of his long-dead sister. After Robert returns home to find that his apartment's courtyard has been vandalized he accepts an offer from Miles Whittaker, a troubled teen resident with artistic talent, to paint a mural on the walls. 

Susan and DIA officer Dave York, Robert's former partner, are called to investigate the murder-suicide of an agency affiliate and his wife in Brussels. At their hotel, Susan is accosted in her room and killed during what seems to be a robbery. Robert determines that the expertly delivered fatal stab means that Susan was targeted and that the murder-suicide was also staged, informing Dave of his findings. During one of his Lyft runs, Robert is attacked by an assassin posing as a passenger. He kills the man and retrieves his mobile phone, discovering Dave's number on the phone's call list. 

Robert confronts Dave at his home, and Dave confesses that after feeling used and discarded by the government he became a mercenary and that he killed Susan when she would have figured out that he was behind the Brussels killings. Robert leaves the house where Dave's current teammates Kovac, Ari and Resnik are waiting. Before departing, he promises to kill the entire team as revenge for the death of Susan. Resnik and Ari head to Susan's house to kill her husband Brian, but Robert helps him escape. Dave and Kovac break into Robert's apartment, where Miles is painting the walls. Monitoring the apartment via webcams, Robert directs Miles to safety in a hidden safe room, and makes a call to Dave to lure him away. Miles emerges from hiding, but finds Dave and Kovac still waiting outside the apartment to take him hostage. 

Dave deduces that Robert has gone to his seaside hometown, which has been evacuated as a hurricane approaches. Having arrived there, Kovac, Ari and Resnik start searching the town while Dave situates himself atop the town's watchtower. Robert stealthily dispatches the team one by one, killing Kovac with a speargun, slashing Ari to death with knives, and setting an explosive trap that kills Resnik. Dave reveals that he has Miles bound in the trunk of his car, and shoots at it in an attempt to lure Robert out. Robert confronts Dave atop the tower, and their fight ends with Robert stabbing Dave in the chest with his own knife the same way Dave did to Susan, followed by a stab in his nape, and then pushing Dave off the tower. Robert then rescues Miles, and the two retreat into Robert's home to bind their wounds and wait out the hurricane.

Back in Boston, Susan's information about Sam's painting helps Robert reunite Sam with his long-lost sister. Miles finishes painting the mural on the apartment complex's brick wall, returns to school, and focuses on his art. Robert's neighbor Fatima notices Miles' new mural and studies it with a smile. Having moved back into his old house, Robert looks out towards the calm sea.

