In 2014, rising unemployment, lack of jobs, rising inflation, and a housing crisis led to the New Founding Fathers of America (NFFA) becoming the most powerful political party in the United States. Meanwhile, crazed drug addict Skeletor discusses his dark thoughts, including his desire to "purge" and unleash his hatred of others with an NFFA employee. Two years later, in 2016, NFFA chief of staff Arlo Sabian and sociologist Dr. May Updale announced an experiment to take place on Staten Island where, for 12 hours, citizens will be allowed to purge and release their inhibitions in any way they choose, including murder. The NFFA offers residents $5,000 to stay during the experiment, with additional compensation if they join the purge and survive. They also outfit the participants with contact lens cameras to monitor all activity and put tracking devices in them so they will know if they try to leave the island.

Low-lying drug kingpin and businessman Dmitri tells his dealers that they will not be leaving the island, as moving his money and product will draw too much attention, and tells them to stay in a safe house and lay low. Dealer Capital A disobeys and goes out and purges, while newbie dealer Isaiah is attacked and injured by Skeletor. Isaiah goes to his sister Nya, an anti-Purge activist and Dmitri's ex-girlfriend, for treatment. As people flee Staten Island, Nya joins her friends Dolores, Luisa, and Selina in a church to wait out the Purge. Dmitri has stayed behind; Anna and Elsa, two prostitutes, are sent by his dealers to his office to keep him company. Skeletor commits the first Purge murder, and the video recorded by the NFFA goes viral. The NFFA also observes that most crimes are minor, unlike the expected violent ones like murder.

Isaiah secretly joins the Purge to get his revenge on Skeletor. He runs off into more purgers before hiding and calling Nya for help. Anna and Elsa are revealed to be Purgers who attempt to kill Dmitri, but Dmitri fights them off and learns that Capital A had sent them to take over Dmitri's business. Skeletor captures Nya in the streets, but Isaiah wounds him, and they escape. Capital A and his crew go to Dmitri's office to meet with Anna and Elsa, but Dmitri and his gang ambush him and kill them all, except for Anna and Elsa. Nya and Isaiah return to the church to see blood-soaked white supremacist bikers leaving while Nya's friend, Luisa, and her daughter, Selina, survive. They all return to Nya's apartment, where Dolores manages to make it safely.

Meanwhile, at the NFFA headquarters, Updale becomes suspicious of a sudden increase in murder and masked participants' presence. As she reviews the video footage of the Purge and notices vans full of masked killers arriving, she realizes that the masked participants are mercenary groups killing civilians. Sabian explains that he sent the mercenaries to make the experiment look successful and eventually to help balance the wealth disequilibrium between the rich and the poor. Updale protests this tampering, realizing that the NFFA only wants to eradicate the poor to save the expense of social programs, so Sabian has Updale taken to Staten Island and be executed before erasing all footage.

Dmitri and his gang escape through the streets until unknown assailants attack them. Dmitri disposes of them all and discovers they are mercenaries. Realizing they were sent by the NFFA, who had also dumped weapons into the neighborhood to provoke participation, Dmitri and his crew decide to take a stand against them and protect the neighborhood. After saving local shop owner and friend Freddy and his associates, they go to Nya's apartment building to try and save her and her friends, but NFFA drones shoot and kill most of Dmitri's gang. Dmitri calls Nya and warns her of the mercenaries' invasion, but he is coming to help her. Dmitri successfully kills several mercenaries and helps Nya's group to hide in a safe space. A second group of mercenaries is about to shoot a rocket-propelled grenade into the apartments when a deranged Skeletor arrives and eliminates some mercenaries before he is killed. Dmitri grabs a piece of plastic explosive and gives it to Nya to throw it while he shoots it repeatedly until it explodes, killing the remaining mercenaries. As sirens sound at the end of the Purge, a wounded Dmitri is hailed as a hero, and he states that the survivors must somehow fight back.

Sabian reads a statement calling this experimental Purge a success and that a nationwide Purge may begin as soon as the following year.<ref>{{cite web|url=https://screenrant.com/first-purge-movie-end-credits-scene/|title=Does The First Purge Have An End-Credits Scene?|website=Screen Rant|date=July 4, 2018|access-date=September 13, 2018|archive-date=September 13, 2018|archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20180913223610/https://screenrant.com/first-purge-movie-end-credits-scene/|url-status=live}}</ref>

