In 480 B.C., one year after the Battle of Thermopylae, Dilios, a hoplite in the Spartan army, begins his story by depicting the life of Leonidas I from childhood to kingship via Spartan doctrine. Leonidas survives being discarded for disfigurements at birth, and is trained for Agoge by his father, where his final test is to survive the harsh winter alone, during which he slays a monstrous wolf. 

Dilios's story continues and a Persian herald arrives on horseback at Sparta demanding "earth and water" as a token of submission to King Xerxes. He urges Leonidas to submit and insults Queen Gorgo. In response, Leonidas kicks the Persian herald into a bottomless pit. Surrounding Spartan soldiers throw in the remaining Persian envoy as well. Leonidas then visits the Ephors, proposing a strategy to drive back the numerically superior Persians through Thermopylae in order to funnel the Persians into a narrow pass, negating the Persian advantage in numbers, and giving the Greeks' heavy infantry the advantage over the vast waves of Persian light infantry. The Ephors warn Leonidas that the sacred festival known as Carneia is approaching and that Sparta should not wage war during that time and consult the Oracle, who decrees that Sparta should honor the Carneia. As Leonidas angrily departs, an agent from Xerxes appears alongside a Spartan politician, Theron, rewarding the Ephors for their covert support.

Although the Ephors have denied him permission to mobilize Sparta's army, Leonidas gathers three hundred soldiers. Theron and the Council confront Leonidas about defying the Ephors by going to war. Leonidas suggests that they will not go, but they depart for war shortly thereafter. They are joined along the way by a force of a few thousand Arcadians and other Greeks led by Daxos. They come across a Greek village that was ravaged by the Persians and reach Thermopylae, watching a storm sinking many Persian navy ships at the Aegean Sea. The Spartans then scout out a large Persian encampment and constructed the wall, using slain Persian scouts as mortar. A Persian Emissary arrives to threaten the Greeks, and Stelios cuts off the Emissary's arm before ordering him to return to his lines and warn Xerxes that they will not surrender.

Meanwhile, Leonidas encounters Ephialtes, a deformed Spartan whose parents fled Sparta to spare him certain infanticide. Ephialtes asked to redeem his father's name by joining Leonidas' army and warning him of a secret goat path the Persians could use to outflank and surround the Spartans. Though sympathetic, Leonidas rejects him since his deformity physically prevents him from holding his shield high enough, potentially compromising the phalanx formation.

The battle begins soon after the Spartans' refusal to lay down their weapons. Because of the narrowed pathway, the Spartans repel many waves of the advancing Persian army. Xerxes personally approaches Leonidas and offers him wealth, power, and a chance to personally lead his forces in exchange for his submission. Leonidas declines and mocks the inferior quality of Xerxes' warriors. That night, Xerxes sends in his elite guard, the Immortals, accompanied by the monstrous Uber Immortal. The Uber Immortal maims Dilios's eye but is defeated by Leonidas. The Greeks are once again victorious. 

On the second day, Xerxes sends in new waves of armies, including barbarians, bombardiers, an armored rhino that is killed by Artemis's son, Astinos, and war elephants with no success. Infuriated by the countless defeats, Xerxes executes his own generals. During a battle, Astinos was killed. Meanwhile, an embittered Ephialtes has defected to Xerxes, and he reveals the secret path in exchange for wealth, women, and a Persian uniform. The Arcadians retreat upon learning of Ephialtes' betrayal, but the Spartans choose to stay. Leonidas orders an injured but reluctant Dilios to return to Sparta and inform them what has happened.

In Sparta, Queen Gorgo has been attempting to persuade the Spartan Council to send reinforcements to aid the 300 Spartan soldiers making their last stand. Gorgo comes to Theron for help, and is allowed to make her plea to the council, but Theron rapes and betrays her and attempts to defame her. Gorgo kills Theron, revealing within his robe a bag of Xerxes' gold. Acknowledging his betrayal, the Council unanimously agrees to send reinforcements. On the third day, the Persians, led by Ephialtes, traverse the secret path, encircling the Spartans. Xerxes' general again demands their surrender. Leonidas appears to kneel in submission, allowing Stelios to leap over him and kill the general. Angered, Xerxes orders his troops to attack. Leonidas throws his spear at Xerxes, slicing his face to prove the God-King's mortality. Leonidas and the remaining Spartans fight to the last man until they finally succumb to an arrow barrage.

Dilios concludes his tale before the Spartan council. Inspired by Leonidas' sacrifice, the Greeks mobilize. One year later, the Persians faces an army of 30,000 Greeks led by a vanguard of 10,000 Spartans. After one final speech commemorating the 300, Dilios, now head of the Spartan army, leads them to battle against the Persians.

