In 1986, Charles Xavier and Erik Lehnsherr meet young Jean Grey at her parents' house to invite her to join their school, the X-Mansion. Ten years later in 1996, industrialist Warren Worthington II discovers his son is a mutant as the latter tries to cut off his wings.

In the present, Worthington Labs announces an inoculation to suppress the X-gene that gives mutants their abilities and offers the "cure" to any mutant who wants it. The cure interests some mutants such as Rogue, who cannot touch anyone without harming them, while others are wary of it. Magneto re-establishes his Brotherhood of Mutants with those who oppose the cure, warning it will be weaponized to exterminate the mutant race. With help from Pyro, Callisto and several other mutants, Magneto attacks a mobile prison and frees Mystique, Multiple Man and Juggernaut. Mystique shields Magneto from a cure dart and loses her mutant abilities. Magneto abandons her. 

Scott Summers, still distraught over the loss of Jean Grey, drives to her resting location at Alkali Lake. Jean appears to Scott but, as the two kiss, Jean kills him. Sensing trouble, Xavier sends Logan and Storm to investigate. When they arrive, they find only telekinetically floating rocks, Scott's glasses, and an unconscious Jean.

At the X-Mansion, Xavier explains that when Jean sacrificed herself to save them, she also freed the "Phoenix", a dark alternate personality with godlike destructive potential which Xavier had telepathically repressed. Logan is disgusted to learn of this psychic tampering with Jean's mind but, once she awakens, he discovers that she killed Scott and is not the Jean Grey he once knew. The Phoenix emerges, knocks out Logan, and escapes to her childhood home. Learning of Jean's resurrection, Magneto and the Brotherhood arrive at the Grey home at the same time as the X-Men. Magneto and Xavier go in, and both vie for Jean's loyalty until the Phoenix resurfaces. She destroys the house and disintegrates Xavier, then leaves with Magneto. 

Interrogating a depowered Mystique, the FBI discovers Magneto's base in the woods and raids it. However, the detected human heat signatures in the camp are Multiple Man and his copies. Magneto and the Brotherhood attack Alcatraz with the intention to kill a young mutant named Jimmy, whose genome is used to create the cure. They overwhelm the military troops until the remaining X-Men arrive to confront them. During the fight, Kitty Pryde saves Jimmy from Juggernaut. Logan distracts Magneto for Hank McCoy to inject him with the cure, nullifying his powers. The Phoenix awakens and begins destroying anyone within range of her powers. Logan realizes that only he can stop the Phoenix due to his healing factor and adamantium skeleton. When Logan approaches her, Jean momentarily gains control and begs him to kill her. Logan fatally stabs Jean, killing the Phoenix, but mourns her death. 

Sometime later, mutant rights are finally obtained and Xavier's school is still operating with Storm as headmistress. The President of the United States appoints McCoy as ambassador to the United Nations. Rogue, having taken the cure, rekindles her relationship with Bobby Drake. Meanwhile, Magneto sits at a chessboard in San Francisco, seemingly human and weak. As Magneto gestures toward a metal chess piece, it wobbles slightly.

Elsewhere, Moira MacTaggert checking on a comatose patient{{efn|In the DVD commentary, it is revealed that the patient was "P. Xavier", Charles Xavier's brain-dead twin brother, whose character was written for the scene. Earlier in the film, MacTaggert spoke in a video about the ways of using mutant powers, such as transferring the mind of a dying man into the body of a patient with no higher brain function, giving an explanation for his resurrection.}} is startled when he greets her with Xavier's voice.

