In London, MI6 agent Hattie Shaw and her team attempt to retrieve a programmable supervirus dubbed "Snowflake" from techno-terrorist organization Eteon. The team secures Snowflake, but is attacked by Brixton Lore, an ex-MI6 Agent turned Eteon operative with cybernetic implants that allow him to perform superhuman feats; Brixton kills all the agents except Hattie, who injects herself with the only dose of Snowflake before escaping. Brixton frames Hattie for killing her team and stealing Snowflake, forcing her to go on the run.

Ex-DSS Agent Luke Hobbs and ex-MI6 Agent Deckard Shaw are informed of the missing virus and reluctantly work together to track it down. After a brief meeting at a CIA black site at the Leadenhall Building, Deckard goes to Hattie's apartment for information, only to get attacked by Eteon operatives.

Meanwhile, Luke manages to find Hattie; after a brief scuffle, he brings her to the CIA offices. As Deckard arrives and informs Luke that Hattie is his sister, the office is attacked by Eteon forces. Hattie is taken by Brixton, whom Deckard recognizes as an old colleague-turned-enemy he believes killed by him. Luke and Deckard pursue and rescue Hattie, and evade Brixton during an ensuing car chase. However, Brixton frames all three as criminals via Eteon's control of global news media.

The three locate Snowflake's creator, Professor Andreiko, where they learn he purposed it to efficiently deliver vaccines, and to prevent Eteon from using it to eradicate humanity, Hattie, while the virus is still dormant, must either be cremated or have the virus removed with a specialized extraction device, which is located in Eteon's special facility in Chernobyl, Ukraine.

Although Luke was briefly detained due to Deckard making his fake alias "Mike Oxmaul," the three manage to travel to Moscow. After rendezvousing with Deckard's former flame Margarita to rearm in Moscow, the three infiltrate the facility. They retrieve the device before escaping in a truck during the facility's destruction, though Andreiko is killed by Brixton and the device is damaged.

Luke takes Deckard and Hattie to his childhood home in Samoa to visit his estranged brother Jonah, a talented mechanic, to repair the device and lay low before confronting Brixton's forces again. Luke has a tense reunion with his family, who he has not communicated with since he turned his criminal father in to the authorities prior. Despite Jonah's objections, their mother convinces him to help repair the device and oppose Eteon's incoming forces.

The makeshift battalion prepares for Eteon's arrival, disabling the weapons used by Eteon's team by temporarily shutting down their authorization code, and setting up a variety of traps around the island. Jonah successfully repairs the device and starts the virus extraction just as Brixton and his army arrive.

In the ensuing battle, the Samoans engage and easily overpower Brixton's reinforcements while suffering minimal casualties. Brixton recaptures Hattie with a helicopter; however, Luke, Deckard, and the Samoans bring the aircraft down with several custom trucks.

Working together, Luke and Deckard alternate their attacks to defeat Brixton, who is remotely terminated afterward by Eteon's unseen director. The director sends a message claiming to know Luke and intending to persuade him and the Shaw siblings, while they promise to find the director; the group then celebrates their victory.

In post-credits scenes, Luke brings his daughter to meet their extended family in Samoa; Deckard and Hattie are implied to bust their mother out of prison; and Luke receives a call from his partner, Locke, who has broken into a laboratory and discovered a more threatening virus. Luke also secretly has the London police set on Deckard in retaliation for the "Mike Oxmaul" prank, having told the police that Deckard's name is "Hugh Janus".

