In 1974 in Upstate New York, young Thaddeus Sivana is riding in a 1979 Cadillac Sedan Deville with his abusive father and brother Sid during a snowstorm and is mocked and verbally harassed by them constantly. He is suddenly transported to the Rock of Eternity, a mystic temple located in another dimension. There, he meets an ancient wizard named Shazam, who has spent centuries searching for someone pure of heart to bestow his power and name as champion after the previous one{{efn|Identified offscreen as Teth-Adam.}} released the Seven Deadly Sins. Thaddeus is tempted by the Sins, who promise him power if he frees them. The wizard deems Thaddeus unworthy and magically returns him to the car. Thaddeus's frustration and confusion leads to a vehicular accident, resulting in his father becoming paralyzed from the waist down and even more resentful towards him. The Sins send Thaddeus a message via his 8-Ball toy, telling him to find them.

In present-day Fawcett City, Philadelphia, 14-year-old foster child Billy Batson continually runs away from foster homes to search for his birth mother from whom he became separated while at a carnival ten years ago. He locks some police officers in a store and uses their computer to try finding his mother, which is unsuccessful. He is placed in a group home run by Víctor and Rosa Vásquez with five other foster children: Mary Bromfield, Pedro Peña, Eugene Choi, Darla Dudley, and superhero enthusiast Freddy Freeman. Elsewhere, an embittered Sivana succeeds in his lifelong quest to return to the Rock of Eternity. He becomes the Sins' vessel when the Eye fuses itself with his body and overpowers the wizard. He promptly uses his newfound powers to kill his father, brother, and Sivana Industries' board of directors.

Billy defends Freddy from bullies at school and is chased into a subway, where he is transported to the Rock of Eternity. The wizard chooses Billy to be his new champion; by saying the name "Shazam," Billy transforms into an adult superhero. The wizard seemingly dies and leaves his magical staff behind. Freddy is taken into Billy's confidence and helps him explore his newfound powers, which include superhuman strength, near-invulnerability, and electrokinesis. By saying "Shazam" again, he can transform back into his normal body. Freddy posts viral videos of the new superhero, and Billy starts skipping school to use his powers to busk for money and fame. He gets into an argument with Freddy after accidentally endangering and saving a bus full of people. Sivana arrives and demands that he surrender his powers. Billy discovers he can fly and escapes. He learns his biological mother's location and visits her, only to be heartbroken upon learning she abandoned him at the carnival after feeling inadequate as a young mother and no longer wanting him in her life.

Sivana deduces Billy's identity and takes his foster siblings hostage. Billy agrees to transfer his powers to Sivana in exchange for their safety. They go to the Rock of Eternity to use the wizard's staff to affect the transfer, but the children attack Sivana. Billy observes Sivana who becomes vulnerable when all seven Sins leave his body. Sivana pursues them to a winter carnival and unleashes the Sins upon the crowd. Remembering the wizard's words, Billy uses the staff to share his powers with his siblings, transforming them into adult superheroes like him before he breaks the staff. The Shazam Family battles against the Sins while Billy faces down Sivana. Billy goads Envy into leaving Sivana vulnerable and recaptures them after forcefully pulling the Eye out of Sivana's head.

Billy and his siblings are hailed as heroes. They return the Sins to their prison and realize they can use the Rock of Eternity as their superhero headquarters. Billy finally accepts his foster parents and siblings as his "real" family. In his superhero form, he has lunch with his siblings at school, revealing to Freddy's surprise that he has also invited Superman.

In a mid-credits scene, the imprisoned Sivana is approached by a talking caterpillar,{{efn|Identified offscreen as Mister Mind.}} who proposes an alliance.

