Deveraux enlists ex-Thai Special Forces Payu and ex-Chinese Special Forces Long Fei on a humanitarian mission in Thailand to free prisoners. Unbeknownst to Payu and Long Fei, Deveraux and his crew consisting of Mook, Joey, Steiner and Dom want to free their leader named Collins, a captured colleague turned terrorist. Deveraux and his crew shoot up the village guarded by Indonesian soldiers, waking up Jaka and killing his wife. During the ensuing chaos, Payu and Jaka fight. Before the victor could be determined, Mook shoots a grenade at Jaka, knocking him out. Deveraux frees Collins, who has been enslaved and sadistically tortured for a long period of time and Collins kills his captor. 

Deveraux double crosses Payu and Long Fei to tie up loose ends, knocking them down into a cage. Collins sets a bomb to burn down the evidence. Payu and Long Fei free the prisoners and barely escape. Jaka wakes up and sees his village in shambles. After burying his wife and the villagers, Jaka swears vengeance against Payu and the people responsible for the destruction of his village. A few days later, Jaka learns that Payu and Long Fei are participating in an illegal boxing ring in Maha Jaya. After Payu defeats a boxer, Jaka and Long Fei face off and Long Fei beats Jaka, but Payu recognizes him as the villager he fought a few days ago. After healing Jaka and giving him food, Jaka gets them drunk and calls the cops. Payu and Long Fei are arrested and sent to the Central Police Station.

A philanthropist named Tian Xiao Xian arrives in Maha Jaya and plans to donate money to charity in order to purge the city's corruption. Su Feng orders Collins and his crew to kill her due to Xiao Xian being an obstacle to Su Feng's criminal activities. As Madame Liang takes Xiao Xian to the Chinese Embassy, Collins and his crew arrive and attempt to kill her. In the process many local bodyguards are killed, Madame Liang is injured but not before gunning down Dom and telling Xiao Xian that she must go to the Central Police Station as it is the only place that she will be safe. Xiao Xian arrives at the police station to get help, but they do not understand her due to language barrier. The police take Long Fei to her and interrogate Payu in another room. 

Meanwhile, Collins and his crew arrive at the police station after a tip from Jaka. As Payu fights Steiner, Jaka shoots Steiner in the back, allowing Payu to kill Steiner. Jaka reveals that he is on their side and had Payu and Long Fei arrested to draw Collins out. Long Fei fights against Joey and beats him, escaping with Payu and Xiao Xian. Jaka kills Mook by blowing her up with a grenade launcher, then meets up with Collins to ally with him, acting as a mole. After barely escaping from Collins twice, Payu calls Collins and offers to trade Xiao Xian for $100,000 and his freedom, asking to meet at the old Polo House.  Collins agrees, but tells his crew and Jaka to use all their remaining money to hire shooters to kill them instead. Payu goes to his old boss and convinces him to give them weapons. 

Long Fei and Xiao Xian meet up with Collins and his crew at the location, while Payu swiftly guns down all the shooters. In the ensuing chaos, Long Fei knocks out Joey by smashing a brick on his head and helps Jaka kill Deveraux. After calling the Chinese ambassador and reveals about Xiao Xian's location, Jaka tries to help Payu beat Collins, but he is too much for them. Jaka is kicked off the balcony by Collins, who finds Xiao Xian and tries to shoot her, but Long Fei takes the bullet. Payu arrives and finally kills Collins. Joey wakes up and is about to shoot Payu when Xiao Xian kills him. The next day, Su Feng is arrested. Madame Liang finds Xiao Xian and reveals that Jaka was the one who gave them their location. Madame Liang takes Xiao Xian to the Chinese Embassy, while Payu and Long Fei jokingly berate Jaka for nearly getting them all killed.

