Three months after defeating Buddy Pine (alias Syndrome),{{efn|As depicted in ''The Incredibles'' (2004)}} the Parr family (alias the Incredibles) and Lucius Best (alias Frozone) battle the Underminer and successfully prevent him from destroying the city hall, but are unable to stop him from robbing a bank and escaping. The collateral damage prompts the government to shut down the Superhero Relocation Program, denying supers financial assistance. When Violet's classmate Tony Rydinger, who she has developed a relationship with, discovers her superhero identity, Agent Rick Dicker accidentally erases Tony's entire memory of her instead of just the event.

A wealthy businessman named Winston Deavor and his sister Evelyn, who run a media and telecommunications giant called DevTech, propose secret missions to Lucius, Helen (alias Elastigirl) and Bob (alias Mr. Incredible). These will be recorded and publicized, to regain public trust in superheroes. Winston chooses Helen for the initial missions, since she is less accident-prone than the men. Reluctant at first, Helen accepts after a talk with Bob. Meanwhile, Bob struggles in his new role as a stay-at-home parent, simultaneously trying to deal with Dash's math homework, Violet's depression over Tony standing her up for their first date due to his memory wipe, and the chaos of baby Jack-Jack's burgeoning superpowers.

Edna Mode develops a suit to help control Jack-Jack's abilities. In the city of New Urbem, Helen encounters a supervillain known as "Screenslaver", who projects hypnotic images by hacking into monitors. After preventing him from destroying a crowded commuter train, and thwarting his attempt to kill an ambassador, she tracks him to an apartment building and unmasks him as a pizzeria worker, who says he cannot remember his actions. At a party celebrating the Screenslaver's arrest, Winston announces a summit of world leaders to legalize supers, hosted aboard his luxury yacht, the ''Everjust''.

Helen discovers the pizzeria worker was innocent, and was being controlled by hypnotic goggles. Evelyn forces the goggles onto Helen and restrains her in a freezing room to limit her stretching abilities. Revealing herself as the true Screenslaver, Evelyn explains her resentment towards the public's reliance on supers for the deaths of her and Winston's parents; their father was killed by burglars while trying to contact Fironic and Gazerbeam to save him (this tragedy was just after supers were outlawed), and their mother died of grief afterwards. Evelyn plans to sabotage her brother's summit to irreparably tarnish the reputation of all supers, ensuring they remain permanently outlawed so the public will have to solve their own problems.

Evelyn lures Bob into a trap, and sends a group of hypnotized supers to subdue the Parr children. Lucius arrives to protect them and help fend off the hypnotized supers, but is overwhelmed. Violet, Dash, and Jack-Jack escape in a refurbished Incredibile, the supercar once owned by their father, and reach Winston's yacht. Onboard, the hypnotized Bob, Helen and Lucius broadcast a vengeful speech painting supers as a threat, subdue the ship's crew, aim the ship at New Urbem, and smash the controls. Jack-Jack removes the goggles on Helen; she in turn frees Bob and Lucius. They release the other mind-controlled supers, and all work together to prevent the yacht from crashing into the city. Evelyn tries escaping in a plane but is thwarted by Helen and arrested. Congratulated for their actions, supers around the world regain their legal status.

Sometime later, Tony accompanies Violet to a movie with the family. When the Parrs spot an in-progress police chase, Violet leaves Tony at the theater, promising to be back in time. The Parrs then join the pursuit in their Incredibile.

