Thomas, Newt, and Frypan, the last of the free "Gladers", join with the Right Arm resistance to retrieve other Immunes from a carriage of a train operated by WCKD, the organization responsible for capturing and experimenting on immune children. They discover that Minho, their Glader friend whom WCKD had captured,{{efn|As depicted in ''Maze Runner: The Scorch Trials''}} was on a different carriage and is headed to the "Last City", WCKD's base of operations. Against the orders of Vince, the leader of the Right Arm, the three head to the Last City to rescue Minho, who is being tortured by WCKD along with several other children in the hope of developing a cure for the virus. The group is attacked by Cranks, humans infected with the Flare. However, they are saved by Jorge and Brenda, who join them.

The group makes it to the wall of the Last City, which is heavily fortified. Outside the wall, people are rallying in protest to be let into the city. When WCKD opens fire at the protesters, the group is captured and taken to a hideout by a crew wearing gas masks. One of the members is revealed to be Gally, who survived being impaled with a spear by Minho.{{efn|As depicted in ''The Maze Runner''}} Gally takes them to meet Lawrence, a rebellion leader, who helps Thomas, Newt, and Gally enter the Last City. Gally takes Thomas and Newt on a tour of the city and, after spotting Teresa, tells Thomas that he can get them into WCKD headquarters. Newt then reveals to Thomas that he is infected. Promising to cure him, Thomas and Gally capture Teresa.

Disguised as WCKD soldiers, Thomas, Newt, and Gally escort Teresa inside WCKD headquarters and toward the location of the Immunes. Gally looks after the Immune children and stays to find a serum that slows the Flare. Thomas, Teresa, and Newt go to find Minho, but are discovered and chased by Janson. Teresa lets them escape to find Minho before going to do a blood test on Thomas' blood, obtained when she was removing trackers from the Gladers. After delivering the Immune children and the serum to Brenda, Gally returns to WCKD headquarters to find Thomas. Brenda is forced to flee with the Immune children to avoid capture. Thomas and Newt reunite with Minho and escape from the WCKD building. Teresa discovers that Thomas' blood can cure the Flare. She shares her discovery with WCKD's leader, Ava Paige, both of whom agree that they must find Thomas. Brenda and the Immune children escape WCKD with Frypan's help.

Meanwhile, Lawrence rallies his rebels outside the city before blowing a hole in the city wall and sacrificing himself to allow his allies and the infected people to storm the city. Gally saves Thomas, Newt, and Minho from WCKD soldiers. While Minho and Gally go to get the serum from Brenda, Thomas gets a pendant from Newt before Newt passes out. Teresa transmits her voice throughout the city and tells Thomas that his blood can save Newt if he will return to WCKD. Newt, nearly consumed by the Flare, regains consciousness and attacks and begs Thomas to kill him. When Thomas refuses, Newt stabs himself with his own knife. Thomas returns to the WCKD facility and confronts Paige. While she talks with him, Janson, having caught the Flare, kills her and uses a sedative on Thomas. Thomas wakes up inside the facility. Teresa successfully removes some of his blood. She hears that Janson is interested only in curing himself and others whom he deems worthy. Teresa attacks Janson and frees Thomas, who fights with Janson. The fight ends when Thomas releases two Cranks on Janson. With the building on fire, Thomas and Teresa escape to the roof. The rest of the team arrives on a Berg. Teresa helps Thomas on board, but the building caves in, causing Teresa to fall to her death.

The group escapes with the rest of the Immunes to a safe haven, where the remaining population can live in safety and rebuild civilization. Thomas discovers that the pendant that Newt gave him had a note in it. He reads the note in which Newt tells him to look after everyone before he thanks Thomas for being his friend.

