In 2035, ten years after the Battle of the Breach, in which the portal created by the Precursors (through which they sent Kaiju) was closed,{{efn|name=Timeline|As depicted in ''Pacific Rim'' (2013)}} former Jaeger pilot Jake Pentecost—son of Stacker Pentecost—makes a living by stealing and selling Jaeger parts on the black market in Santa Monica, California. After he tracks part of a disabled Jaeger's power core to the secret workshop of fifteen-year-old Jaeger enthusiast Amara Namani, both are apprehended by the Pan-Pacific Defense Corps (PPDC) following an altercation between Amara's small, single-pilot Jaeger ''Scrapper'' and the law enforcement Jaeger ''November Ajax''. Jake's adoptive sister and Japanese Senator Mako Mori persuades him to return to PPDC as an instructor to avoid prison, with Amara as his recruit.

Arriving at the China Shatterdome, Jake starts training Jaeger cadets with his estranged former co-pilot Nathan "Nate" Lambert. Nate and Mako explain that the Jaeger program is threatened by the Shao Corporation's new drone program, which offers to mass-produce Jaeger drones developed by Liwen Shao and Dr. Newton 'Newt' Geiszler. Mako is due to deliver a final assessment to determine the approval of the drones at a PPDC council meeting in Sydney, but is accidentally killed by a rogue Jaeger, ''Obsidian Fury,'' during an altercation with the latter and ''Gipsy Avenger,'' Jake and Nate's Jaeger, before she can. Her death prompts the PPDC council to authorize and deploy the drones immediately. ''Obsidian Fury'' escapes into the ocean before backup Jaegers can apprehend it.

Moments before her death, Mako had transmitted the location of a defunct Jaeger production facility in Siberia. Jake and Nate travel there in ''Gipsy Avenger'', but ''Obsidian Fury'' destroys the complex and engages them in battle. Although ''Obsidian Fury'' initially has the upper hand, ''Gipsy Avenger'' is able to overpower the Jaeger. Upon removing its reactor, they find that ''Obsidian Fury'' was controlled not by humans, but by a Kaiju's secondary brain, which testing shows was grown on Earth.

When the drones reach their respective locations, their piloting operations are hijacked by cloned Kaiju brains secretly mounted onboard. The Kaiju-Jaeger hybrids simultaneously attack all Shatterdomes, inflicting heavy casualties and incapacitating almost all Jaegers. Newt and Dr. Hermann Gottlieb try to disable the drones, but the latter discovers that the former is behind the attack when he commands the Kaiju-Jaeger hybrids to open multiple breaches across the Pacific Rim. Newt's mind has been possessed by the Precursors—who forged a link when he and Hermann drifted with Kaiju brains{{efn|name=Timeline}}—and reveals that he placed the brains in the drones and ''Obsidian Fury'' to ensure the Precursors' plan would proceed having orchestrated the assassination of Mako to force the drone plan to go ahead.

Although Liwen is able to destroy the drones, closing the breaches, three creatures, Hakuja, Shrikethorn, and Raijin had already emerged and reached Tokyo. The team realizes that the Precursors' true goal is to detonate Mount Fuji with the Kaijus' blood which will cause every volcano lining the Ring of Fire to erupt, releasing volcanic matter into the atmosphere and wiping out all life on Earth, simultaneously terraforming the planet for Precursor colonization.

The cadets are mobilized while Hermann and Liwen repair the PPDC's four salvageable Jaegers; Hermann develops Kaiju-blood-powered rockets, which launch the team to Tokyo. Although the Jaegers, including ''Gipsy Avenger'', initially repel the three Kaiju, Newt merges them into a "Mega-Kaiju" using robotic parasites from one of Liwen's factories. Three of the four Jaegers are destroyed, leaving ''Gipsy Avenger'' as the only one remaining. Jake and Amara, replacing the injured Nate, pilot it against the Mega-Kaiju, with Liwen remote piloting ''Scrapper'' and aiding them by locating a rocket and welding it to ''Gipsy'', which sends the Jaeger (with ''Scrapper'' holding on) into the atmosphere and free-falling back to Earth, colliding into the Mega-Kaiju and killing it at the last second; Jake and Amara survive by transferring to ''Scrapper''. Enraged at the Mega-Kaiju's death, Newt attempts to initiate a "Plan B" but is knocked out and captured by Nate. Later, Jake speaks with Newt, who warns of the Precursors' return. Jake states that humanity is preparing for the upcoming war.

