In a dystopian 2045, people seek to escape from reality through the OASIS (Ontologically Anthropocentric Sensory Immersive Simulation), a multiplayer virtual reality entertainment universe created by James Halliday and Ogden Morrow of Gregarious Games. After Halliday's death, a pre-recorded message left by his avatar Anorak announces a contest, granting ownership of the OASIS to the first to find the golden Easter egg that sits behind a locked gate which can only be opened by completing three challenges to acquire the necessary keys. The contest has lured several "Gunters", or egg hunters, and piqued the interest of Nolan Sorrento, the CEO of Innovative Online Industries (IOI), who seeks to control the OASIS himself by inserting intrusive online advertising. IOI dispatches an army of indentured servants, and employees called "Sixers" to search for the egg.

Teenage orphan Wade Watts' avatar Parzival, an avid Gunter, participates in the first challenge, an unbeatable race, along with his best friend Aech, and Art3mis, a female online streamer whose avatar Parzival has a crush on. Parzival regularly revisits Halliday's Journals, a simulated archive of Halliday's life and hobbies, run by the Curator. Here, he discovers he can win the race by driving backward, and receives the Copper Key from Anorak. Art3mis, Aech, and his friends Daito and Sho, all win the race afterward, later being collectively named the High-5 on the OASIS' scoreboard.

Sorrento asks mercenary i-R0k to learn Parzival's true identity, intending to bribe him to win the contest on IOI's behalf. Wade and Art3mis discover from the Journals that Halliday once dated Morrow's wife Karen "Kira" Underwood. Wade and Art3mis visit the Distracted Globe night club to look for clues, where Wade reveals his identity and confesses his love to Art3mis. They survive an IOI raid in which Art3mis abandons Wade, explaining that her father died in debt to IOI and that she believes Parzival is not taking the contest seriously. i-R0k, having eavesdropped on their conversation, reveals his findings to Sorrento, who contacts Wade with an offer. When rejected, Sorrento attempts to dispose of Wade by bombing his home, killing his aunt Alice and her boyfriend Rick among others. Art3mis' player, Samantha Cook, takes Wade in. Together, they realize the second challenge relates to Halliday's regret of not pursuing a relationship with Kira. The High-5 search a recreation of the Overlook Hotel, where Art3mis asks Kira to dance and wins the Jade Key. Sorrento's subordinate F'Nale Zandor storms the Gunters' hideout, taking Samantha to an IOI Loyalty Center to pay off her father's debt. Wade escapes with the help of the other High-5 users, Helen Harris (Aech), Toshiro (Daito), and Zhou (Sho) in Helen's truck. Samantha escapes confinement after Aech and Parzival hack Sorrento's OASIS rig.

The third challenge is found in Castle Anorak on Planet Doom, where players must guess Halliday's favorite Atari 2600 game to earn the Crystal Key. i-R0k places an impenetrable forcefield around the castle using the Orb of Osuvox, but Art3mis soon disables it. The High-5 lead an army of OASIS players against IOI's forces. Parzival kills Samantha's avatar, allowing her to flee IOI with the High-5 picking her up nearby.  Parzival and Sorrento fight in the OASIS with Sorrento detonating the Cataclyst bomb, wiping out every avatar including himself. Parzival survives using an extra life coin he won in a bet with the Curator. He plays ''Adventure'', winning the Crystal Key by locating Warren Robinett's Easter egg. He uses the three keys to enter a treasure room, where Anorak offers him a contract to sign. Parzival recognizes it as the one where Morrow signed over his shares when Halliday forced him out of Gregarious Games and refuses to sign it. Anorak transforms into Halliday, who expresses his regrets in life and awards Parzival the Easter egg.

Ogden Morrow appears, revealing that he is the Curator. Wade decides to run the OASIS with the High-5, inviting Morrow to stay on as a consultant. After Aech sends the police a copy of Sorento confessing to the bombing, he and F'Nale are arrested. As the IOI Loyalty Centers are shut down, the High-5 make the controversial choice to close the OASIS twice a week for people to spend more time in the real world, including Wade and Samantha, who start a relationship.

