A mother reads "The Stolen Child" by William Butler Yeats to her three children, two boys and one girl, and recounts a story of three siblings; first David, middle child Peter, and last Alice, who live with their parents: Jack and Rose Littleton. The children dwell in a house by a forest on the outskirts of London and let their imaginations run wild. Alice acts mature in contrast to Peter who behaves like a feral boy pretending to be various sorts of tribesmen and gods, regarding the local woods as his domain. Rose's sister Eleanor is requesting to sponsor David's education on the grounds of his intelligence (during one of their trips they discover an eagle feather and a downed boat, with the siblings wondering if they could get it sea worthy).

Tragedy strikes one day when David, while pretending to fight pirates during a storm, falls into the river, is struck by lightning and dies. The family copes in different ways; with Jack, a model maker, returning to his bad gambling habits and Rose intending to make a green felt hat that would have been David's birthday present (further problems arise when Jack's latest model boat is rejected for another version). Eleanor meanwhile shifts focusing her attention on Alice hoping to make her niece a proper lady in order to make her more accepted in the current class society due to her mixed-color parentage. In order to make payments Peter and Alice make a trip to London to sell a family heirloom silver pocket watch, during which they shelter a group of street urchins who have pickpocketed an intimidating criminal.

Both siblings meet an eccentric shop keeper, Hatter, who leads them to a money lender and lower crime boss Captain James or CJ who unknown to both of them is their uncle. Peter later runs into the very same street kids (he met earlier) who reveal they are known as the Lost Boys and that they have been to a place known only to children called Never Neverland and offer to take him there. Jack later visits his brother to call off his debt collectors, with a jealous James crippling his brother (as a show of loyalty to his crime pay masters) leading to Jack losing his hand.

Peter responds by seeking out these Lost Boys to help rob James of the fortune of gold coins he spied on earlier that James is safe guarding for the various criminal organizations of London's underworld. When James catches his nephew in the act Peter cuts off his uncle's hand in a sword duel before fleeing, with his uncle and cohorts hot on his heels, Peter is forced to run away from home taking his late brother's newly finished hat with the eagle feather in it while dressed in his brother's hand me down green clothes (whilst Captain James and company give chase after him). Alice last spies Peter on the now fixed boat sailing away crewed by said Lost Boys who are taking her brother to Never Neverland (with the ship apparently being pulled into the air by the wind itself thanks to a fairy that Alice came across disguised as a little brass bell), although Peter briefly returns to stop by while his family sleeps to deposit some of the stolen coins (that he irregularly does over the years to support his loved ones).

The mother finishes telling her story which has now been established as being of her own early life thereby revealing she is Alice now an independent lady to her children who are revealed to be Wendy Darling and her brothers, John and Michael. Coming back from going out for the evening with her husband George Darling, she suddenly hears a familiar crowing that both her brothers used to do and heads upstairs to find the children's bedroom windows thrown wide open and a notable eagle feather on the floor beneath said window. As she looks out of their window at the night sky hoping it was her brother who came to taken his niece and nephews off to this supposed Never Neverland, and will likely look after them while they are there.

