During the gods’ battle against the Titans, Hades created the Kraken, a fearsome monster that helped win the gods’ victory. Zeus and his brothers then divided the world amongst themselves; Zeus took the skies, Poseidon the seas, and Hades, deceived by Zeus, was left to rule the Underworld.

Zeus later created the mortal humans, whose worship maintained the gods' immortality. Over time, however, some mortals began to defy their creators. When the human king Acrisius leads a siege at Mount Olympus, Zeus sleeps with his wife Danae, conceiving a demigod son, Perseus. Upon discovering this, an enraged Acrisius locks the queen and her newborn child in a chest and throws them into the sea. Zeus retaliates by striking the king with a lightning bolt, which severely deforms him. Perseus and the now-dead Danae are found by the fisherman Spyros, who raises the baby with his wife Marmara.

18 years later, Perseus and his family watch as soldiers from the city of Argos destroy the statue of Zeus, declaring war on the gods. The soldiers are slaughtered by the Furies, who are controlled by Hades. Hades then destroys the family's fishing vessel; Spyros and his family drown, with Perseus as the only survivor.

Found by another group of soldiers, Perseus is brought before King Kepheus and Queen Cassiopeia, who are celebrating their campaign against the gods. While their daughter Princess Andromeda disapproves of her parents’ rebellion, Cassiopeia furthers her boasts. The revelry is suddenly interrupted by Hades. He kills Cassiopeia by rapidly aging her; threatens to unleash the Kraken upon Argos in ten days, unless Andromeda is offered to it as a sacrifice; and reveals Perseus’s godly heritage. Perseus meets Io, a mysterious woman cursed with immortality, who confirms his origin.

Perseus, Io, and the King's Guard led by Draco journey to the Stygian Witches, seeking a way to defeat the Kraken. To help his son, Zeus tries to give Perseus a sword forged on Olympus, which he refuses. Soon after, they are attacked by the corrupted Acrisius, now known as Calibos, who is working for Hades. During the fight, Draco severs Calibos' hand, forcing him to retreat to a desert where the blood from his injury conjures giant scorpions which attack the group.  They are rescued by a band of Djinn, desert sorcerers who tame the remaining scorpions and lend their aid to Perseus and his group.

They arrive at the lair of the Stygian Witches, who are forced to reveal a weapon to defeat the Kraken: the head of the gorgon Medusa, who resides in the Underworld. Upon arrival, Perseus and his remaining companions enter Medusa's temple lair, while Io remains outside. Medusa kills everyone except Perseus, who finally manages to behead her by using the reflective underside of his shield to see her with his back turned. Upon leaving Medusa’s lair, Calibos appears and fatally stabs Io. As Perseus and Calibos fight, Perseus picks up the Olympian sword and kills his opponent; Calibos’ human form is briefly restored before he dies.  As Io lies dying, she urges Perseus to save Andromeda and Argos.

The winged horse Pegasus arrives and takes Perseus back to Argos while Hades, having manipulated Zeus and the gods into earning their trust, releases the Kraken. Prokopion, a fanatical worshipper of Hades, and his followers take Andromeda to be sacrificed. Perseus arrives in time and exposes Medusa's head to the Kraken, which gradually petrifies and crumbles. Prokopion attempts to kill Perseus, but Kepheus intervenes, and both of them are then crushed by the Kraken's falling claw. Hades confronts Perseus, but the latter, invoking Zeus, hurls his sword at Hades, forcing him back to the Underworld. Perseus rescues Andromeda, who asks him to rule Argos by her side as king, but he declines.

