In Seattle, Victoria attacks Riley Biers, so she can begin to create an army of newborns with him to get her revenge on Edward Cullen for killing her true love James.

In Forks, Edward and Bella Swan discuss the complications of becoming an immortal vampire. At 18 years old, one year older than Edward was when he became a vampire, Bella expresses her aversion to the idea of marrying so young. Edward refuses to turn her into a vampire until they are married, his argument that she should have various human experiences she would otherwise miss. 

Werewolf Jacob Black confesses he is in love with Bella, and forcefully kisses her. Furious, she punches him and sprains her hand but forgives him later when he apologizes. Alice sees a vision of the newborn army attacking Forks led by Riley. The vision leads to an alliance between the Cullens and Wolf pack, who decide to strategize and train in defense.

During the training Jasper explains to Bella that he was created by a vampire named Maria to control a newborn army and hated himself before meeting Alice. Bella sees the true bond between a mated vampire pair and realizes that spending eternity with Edward is important to her. She agrees to marry him.

Edward and Bella camp in the mountains to hide her from the bloodthirsty newborns. Jacob overhears them discussing their engagement and takes off, upset. Bella chases him and desperately asks him to kiss her, realizing she has fallen in love with him. Edward is not upset, as Bella tells him her love for Jacob is not as strong as her love for him.

When Victoria appears, Edward kills her while Seth kills Riley. The Cullens and the Quileute wolves destroy her army. Jacob is badly injured during the fight. The Volturi arrives and finds the Cullens guarding newborn vampire Bree Tanner, who had surrendered to Carlisle and Esme. Jane tortures her, then instructs Felix to kill her, despite the Cullens' efforts to spare her.

When Jane notes that Bella is still human, Bella informs her the date for her transformation has been set. She visits the injured Jacob to tell him she has chosen to be with Edward and Jacob reluctantly agrees to stop trying to come between her and Edward.

Bella and Edward go to their meadow, where she tells him she has decided to do things his way: get married, have sex, then be transformed into a vampire, and that she feels complete in his world. They decide to tell Charlie about their engagement.

