Three Narnian years after the events of ''Prince Caspian'', Lucy and Edmund Pevensie are staying with their irritating cousin Eustace Scrubb while their older siblings Peter and Susan are in America as World War II rages on. Edmund is too young to enlist in His Majesty's Armed Forces, to his chagrin. A painting of a ship on the ocean transports Lucy, Edmund, and Eustace into an ocean in Narnia.

They are rescued by the ''Dawn Treader''. Caspian invites them on a voyage to rescue the seven Lords of Narnia whom his uncle Miraz banished. In the Lone Islands, where people are sold as slaves, Caspian and Edmund are imprisoned while Lucy and Eustace are sold as slaves. Caspian meets one of the lost lords, who reveals that unsold slaves are sacrificed to a green mist. The crew of the ''Dawn Treader'' rescues Caspian and the others. The lord, who becomes the new governor, gives Caspian a sword, one of seven given to the lords by Aslan. At another island, Lucy is abducted by invisible Dufflepuds who force her to enter the manor of the magician Coriakin to find a visibility spell. Coriakin encourages the crew to defeat the mist by laying the lords' swords at Aslan's Table on Ramandu's island, but warns they will be tested. Lucy recites a beauty incantation she found, and enters a dream in which she is Susan, and neither Lucy nor Narnia exist. Aslan chides Lucy for her self-doubt, explaining that her siblings only know of Narnia because of her. At a third island, another sword is recovered from a pool that turns anything that touches it into gold. Eustace steals from a rock pit full of treasure. While Edmund and Caspian look for Eustace, they discover the remains of another of the lords, recovering his sword. A dragon approaches and is driven away from the ''Dawn Treader''. The dragon is Eustace, transformed by the treasure's curse. Reepicheep befriends Eustace, who has a change of heart and becomes useful to the crew.

The crew arrives at Aslan's Table to find three lost lords sleeping. As they place the swords on the table they realise one is missing. A star descends from the sky and transforms into Lilliandil, a beautiful woman who guides them to the Dark Island, a lair of the mist, where they discover the last lord. The island uses Edmund's fear to create a sea serpent that attacks the ship. Eustace fights the serpent, but the panicked lord wounds him with the last sword, causing him to fly away. He encounters Aslan, who transforms him back into a boy for his self-sacrifice and sends him to Ramandu's island with the last sword. As the crew fights the serpent, the mist distracts Edmund by appearing as Jadis, the White Witch. Eustace reaches the table, but the mist tries to stop him from putting the sword on the table with the others. He overcomes the mist, allowing the swords to unleash their magic and bestow Edmund's own sword with the power to slay the sea serpent, the death of which awakens the three lords, destroys the mist and Dark Island, and liberates the sacrificed slaves.

Eustace rejoins Lucy, Edmund, Caspian, and Reepicheep, and they sail to a mysterious shore before a massive wave. Aslan appears, telling them that his country lies beyond, although if they go there they may never return. Caspian wishes to enter Aslan's country but changes his mind, knowing he has more duties as a king, but Reepicheep is determined to enter. Aslan blesses him and he bids farewell to Caspian, Edmund, Lucy and Eustace. Aslan tells Lucy and Edmund that they cannot return to Narnia as they have grown up like their elder siblings Peter and Susan. Aslan encourages them to know him in their world by another name. Aslan opens a portal to return them to their world. As Lucy, Edmund and Eustace walk to the portal, Eustace asks Aslan if he will return. Aslan replies that he will. The three of them are returned to the bedroom. Eustace hears his mother announcing a visitor, Jill Pole. Eustace hangs the painting back on the wall. As they exit the bedroom, they sadly look back at the painting and see the ship voyaging through the waves disappear before Lucy closes the door.

