In 2020, Bill and Ted have failed to write a prophesied song to unite the world.{{efn|As depicted in ''Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey'' (1991).}}  Their marriages and careers are deteriorating, and time and space are beginning to collapse.

Kelly, the daughter of Bill and Ted's deceased time-travelling guide, Rufus, arrives to take them to the year 2720 in San Dimas, California. Her mother, the Great Leader, tells them that they have until 7:17&nbsp;p.m. that night to create the song or reality will collapse. They use Rufus's time-traveling phone booth to retrieve the song from their future selves, only to discover their future selves have failed; their wives have left them and they blame their past selves for their failures.

An impatient Great Leader sends a time-traveling robot, Dennis, to kill them, hoping that it will stabilize reality. Kelly travels back to the present to warn them, but instead meets their daughters, Billie and Thea, who decide to help make the song. Using Kelly's time machine, Thea and Billie recruit musicians Jimi Hendrix, Louis Armstrong, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Ling Lun and Grom, a prehistoric drummer. Thea, Billie and their band return to the present to meet up with Kelly and a time-displaced Kid Cudi, but Dennis inadvertently kills them and sends them to Hell.

Bill and Ted travel to 2067 and find their elderly future selves on their deathbeds. The elderly Bill and Ted give their younger selves a USB drive containing the fabled song by "Preston / Logan", stating that it must be performed at 7:17 p.m at "MP 46". Dennis appears, and upon learning Bill and Ted have the song, informs them of his blunder. Bill destroys the USB to goad Dennis into killing them so they can rescue their daughters in Hell. This backfires as a distraught Dennis turns his weapon on himself, but Bill and Ted throw themselves in the way of the resulting explosion. All three are sent to Hell, where Bill and Ted locate their daughters and the band. With the help of their daughters, Bill and Ted reconcile with their old bandmate Death to return everyone alive to 2020.

The group arrive on Interstate 210 at the MP 46 marker, just as reality is collapsing. Bill and Ted realize that the song is only to be ''performed'' by them, not ''written'' by them, and that "Preston / Logan" on the USB drive actually refers to Thea and Billie. For the song to repair the universe, it must be performed by every person in history, all across time. They are joined by their wives, who have realized they are happy with their lives. The four use the booth to create infinite copies of themselves in time and space, handing instruments to everyone who ever lived. Everyone performs the song, with Thea and Billie producing, while Bill and Ted lead the band on guitar. The performance repairs the universe and everyone returns to their respective times.

A post-credits scene shows a now elderly Bill and Ted awakening from their beds in a nursing home for a spontaneous guitar jam session, proclaiming, "We still got it," before calling for the nurse.

