Elle's senior year begins with classmates gossiping that she and Noah will eventually break up, making her fear elevate as Noah has befriended an attractive British girl named Chloe on Instagram.

Elle and Lee are planning the kissing booth again for the Charity Fair, and he is trying to convince her to ask Marco Peña, the new transfer student known as the new "Noah Flynn," be one of the kissers. Beating Marco on the dancing game, she forces him to participate in the booth. Noah suggests Elle apply to Harvard, which clashes with her plans to study at University of California, Berkeley with Lee (where their moms met and became friends). Elle does it secretly.

Talking with her father about college tuition, Elle learns money is a problem, and decides to participate with Lee in a dance competition with a cash reward for first place. She visits Noah in Boston, meeting his new friends and Chloe, making her more insecure. She finds Chloe's earring under Noah's bed, which causes her to leave Boston. Confronting Noah, he assures her nothing has happened between him and Chloe and he asks her to trust him, though she is still skeptical. Lee has an accident on one of their practice sessions (later revealed to be fake) and proposes that Marco become her dance partner, which she isn't too happy about but eventually does. As Marco and Elle start spending time together, they grow closer, and an attraction starts between them.

Unbeknownst to Elle, Lee's having problems with Rachel, as Elle goes everywhere with them and does not give them alone time. After leaving Rachel waiting at the movies, she asks Lee to talk with Elle, which he promises but never does. The Halloween Dance arrives, and Lee forgets to tell Rachel they changed costumes (Rachel was a marshmallow while Lee and Elle were going to be crackers making a smore), upsetting her even more. Elle shares a dance with Marco, almost kissing him but stops upon hearing people gossiping about her.

Lee finds in his car trunk Elle's applications to Harvard, angering him. Elle and Marco excel at their performance, and she kisses him at the end of their dance, not knowing Noah was in the crowd, causing him to walk away.

Thanksgiving dinner happens at Flynn's, where Noah arrives with Chloe, upsetting Elle, who Lee confronts for not telling him about her application to Harvard and Rachel is upset with her as well. During dinner, Rachel discovers Lee never spoke with Elle and leaves. Catching up with her, Rachel breaks up with him. Elle tries to convince Rachel to reconcile with Lee but is unsuccessful. She also returns the earring to Chloe, who confirms it's hers. She reveals to Noah in a bar that one night she slept in Noah's room when he was out and lost it.

The carnival day arrives, and Lee and Rachel reconcile after being blindfolded and kissing at the kissing booth. Elle is also blindfolded and is approached by Marco, who wants to talk with her about their feelings. She admits there is an attraction between them but tells him she loves Noah and goes looking for him at the airport. Chloe tells her that he went to look for her, and Elle finds him in the park where they first kissed. Noah confesses to being embarrassed he wasn't doing as well at Harvard as he initially thought. He also wants a relationship with Chloe like Elle has with Lee. Elle and Noah reunite.

A few months later, Noah returns, and Elle, Lee, and Rachel graduate. Lee shares with Elle that he was accepted at Berkeley and asked if she received a response. She answers she was waitlisted at both Berkeley and Harvard. When Elle opens both envelopes in her room, it turns out she was accepted to both universities, forcing her to make a decision: go to Harvard with Noah or Berkeley with Lee.

