{{Long plot|date=November 2021}}<!-- 913 words (14 Nov 2021)
Plot summaries should be between 400-700 words -->

Quinn Ackerman, a quirky and intelligent high school senior, works as a technical director for the Thunderbirds, her high school's elite dance team, which is well known around the state as the reigning champions of the Work It dance competition. When Quinn spills coffee on the control panel and ruins a live performance, the ruthless leader of the Thunderbirds, Julliard Pembroke, fires her from the position.

Quinn's dream to attend Duke University, her late father's alma mater, is soured when the admissions counselor, Veronica Ramirez, informs that her chances of standing out to the admission's team are not good. Quinn misleads Ramirez into thinking that she is a dancer on the Thunderbirds, even though she only worked the lighting. Ramirez is instantly impressed, and vows to see her perform live at the Work It dance competition. Though she considers confessing to her white lie, Quinn instead decides to commit to it, realizing it's her only chance of getting into Duke. Quinn enlists the help of her best friend, Jasmine Hale, who is a dancer for the Thunderbirds herself, to teach her how to dance and prepare her for the team's open auditions in two weeks. Quinn's dancing skills improve substantially by the time of the audition, but Julliard still rejects her. After Jasmine stands up to him and defends Quinn, Julliard sarcastically suggests that the two start their own dance team, which Quinn does. Jasmine reluctantly agrees to quit the Thunderbirds in favor of Quinn's new team.

Quinn and Jasmine research a former champion of the Work It competition, Jake Taylor, who stopped competing and vanished after a knee injury two years prior. Quinn tracks him down and approaches him at the dance studio where he now works, and asks him to be a choreographer for her team, but Jake rejects her, insisting that dance is done with passion, and can't be learned by thinking. Meanwhile, the girls round up a group of unknown dancers at their school who all differ in style, including Raven, a goth and rocker; Chris, a soccer player; DJ Tapes, a kid who sells mixtapes; Robby, a karate student; and Priya, an Indian style dancer. After seeing the team's potential during an informal dance meetup, Jake agrees to choreograph for Quinn's team at Work It, but only if they can win the upcoming qualifying competition by themselves. Under the name "TBD", they cut qualifiers but on a technicality issue with an opposing team. 

Jake and Quinn spend more time together, and one night, Jake takes her aside and decides to experiment with freestyle dancing with her. As the two practice, Quinn's talent surfaces, and they kiss. With newfound confidence, Quinn takes it easier on herself and puts more effort into her dancing and teamwork.

Quinn emails Veronica Ramirez and informs her that she has started her own team and that they will be competing at Work It. However, when Julliard discovers that Jake is choreographing for the Quinn's team, he turns them in for using the studio to practice without paying, and Jake loses his job. Quinn's grades drop due to her dedication to the team, and she receives an email from the Duke admissions team informing her that Veronica no longer works there. Quinn confesses everything to her mom, and they agree that she should quit the dance team and bring her grades up before turning in her final transcript. The team feels betrayed by Quinn's departure, especially Jasmine, who rejoins the Thunderbirds, and Quinn ends her romance with Jake after deciding she doesn't have the time for it. She later rediscovers her own passion for dance and reconciles with Jake, and they both decide to bring the team back together. Quinn reconciles with Jasmine, who quits the Thunderbirds and rejoins the TBDs.

The group begins to learn each other's unique dance styles, and Jake incorporates them into the choreography. On the day of the competition, Quinn's mother discovers that she is still in dance and tries to stop her from leaving, but Quinn steals the car keys and leaves. When Quinn arrives, the TBDs are already on stage, and she enters halfway through the act. The TBDs narrowly win the competition over the Thunderbirds, and both Jasmine and Julliard are approached by a scout from the New York Dance Academy. Quinn runs into Veronica, who is now working at NYU, and she invites her to apply for the fall semester.

