A newlywed interracial couple, Chris and Lisa Mattson, are moving into their first home. Chris's first exchanges with their neighbor, widowed and longtime LAPD police officer and African-American man Abel Turner, have somewhat hostile undertones, with Abel making comments about Chris' smoking (which Abel later exposes to Lisa) and listening to hip hop music, and making remarks about his race in his relationship with Lisa. The following night, Chris and Lisa have sex in their swimming pool. Unbeknownst to them, Abel's children, Marcus and Celia, are watching them. Abel arrives home and witnesses the spectacle. Angered, he repositions his house security floodlights to shine into Chris and Lisa's bedroom window, keeping them awake.

Abel begins to insinuate to Chris that he disapproves of his marriage and that he wants them to move out of their new neighborhood. One evening, Chris and Lisa hear noises downstairs and find the tires on Chris' car slashed. Suspecting Abel, they call the police, who are unable to do anything because of Abel's status within the LAPD. Chris retaliates by shining his own floodlights into Abel's bedroom. Lisa later reveals she is pregnant, creating conflict with Chris, who does not yet want children. Meanwhile, Abel is suspended without pay for abusing a suspect, inciting more fury within him.

Abel continues harassing the couple by hosting a loud bachelor party with his colleagues where he forces Chris to be sexually harassed by a stripper. Chris later plants trees along the fence between their properties, which leads to a near-violent exchange, as Abel objects to having trees hanging over his property. When Chris goes to a local bar, Abel enters and tells Chris that his own wife died in a traffic accident because she was seemingly having an affair with her white male employer, and that he mistrusts white men and is prejudiced against interracial relationships because of this. 

Abel sends his informant, Clarence Darlington, to trash the Mattson's home in another effort to scare them out. Lisa arrives home early, surprising Clarence. They struggle and Lisa is knocked out, but not before she triggers the alarm. Chris races home, followed by a frustrated Abel. When Abel comes across his hired hoodlum trying to escape, he kills him in order to keep him quiet. Lisa is rushed to the hospital, but recovers.

Wildfires are raging in the surrounding hills and the residents are instructed to leave their homes. Abel, who remains behind, enters the Mattsons' home, hoping to retrieve Clarence's dropped cell phone, fearing that it will incriminate him. Lisa and Chris unexpectedly return from the hospital before Abel finds the phone, and he leaves. While the Mattsons pack to evacuate, Chris finds the cell phone. He calls the last number dialled and hears Abel answer. 

Chris realizes Abel is responsible for the break-in, and Abel realizes Chris has discovered the phone. Abel goes over with his gun drawn, and he and Chris struggle. Before Lisa can escape, Abel shoots her car, causing her to crash into a parked vehicle. After pistol-whipping Abel and supposedly knocking him unconscious, Chris tries to free Lisa from the car. Abel fires his gun at Chris but misses, and Chris holds Abel's other gun at him while telling him to stay back.

Hiding his gun in the back of his pants, Abel claims he is unarmed when county sheriff officers arrive on the scene. The police demand Chris drop his gun, while ordering Abel not move any further, uncertain of who the aggressor is. His wife begs him to comply and Abel tells him to listen to her. However, in an effort to expose Abel's true nature in front of the police, Chris retorts that Abel should have listened to his wife and tauntingly asks if he foresaw her betrayal, implying that his belligerent attitude drove her to cheat on him. Chris's words provoke a livid Abel to pull out his hidden handgun and shoot Chris in the shoulder, after which he is promptly and viciously gunned down by his former colleagues. 

Chris survives the shooting, and in the ambulance, he and Lisa talk about their pride in their home, neighborhood, and soon-to-be family, while the wildfires finally seem to be contained.

