Several months after the events of the previous film, Yuri Boyka is now a free man and has a manager named Kiril. Boyka still fights in underground matches in Kyiv, Ukraine. In a match, Boyka accidentally kills his opponent Viktor and begins to regret and thinks about what he is fighting for. After discovering Viktor has a wife named Alma, Boyka tells Kiril to make a fake passport and goes to Russia to meet Alma. In the Russian town of Drovny, Boyka finds out that Alma owes money to a crime boss named Zourab. Alma lives in a community center and serves as a waitress in Zourab's underground fighting club. 

Zourab is now searching for a good martial artist to fight in his club. Boyka wants to help Alma pay her debt so he makes a deal with Zourab that he will fight for him in exchange for Alma's freedom. Zourab agrees and suggests Boyka to fight in three matches. Alma invites Boyka to the training room in the community center for his training. Boyka easily defeats his opponent in the first match and then must fight two brothers in the second match, where he defeats them by double knockout. In the community center, Boyka asks Alma why she does not leave the town. Alma tells that she cannot leave the children and the center as the children could become gangsters or bad guys. 

In the third match, Boyka defeats Igor Kazmir, who is the elite henchman of Zourab. Boyka is about to leave, but Zourab forces him to fight one more match to defeat his true champion. Boyka reluctantly agrees. Zourab bribes a high-ranking police officer to bring Koshmar to his club. Koshmar is a giant, furious and relentless martial artist. Zourab thinks Boyka cannot defeat Koshmar as he has a large and strong body. After some intense moments, Boyka breaks one arm and one leg of Koshmar and finally kicks him out of the ring, knocking him unconscious. 

Enraged, Zourab takes Alma as a hostage and orders his henchmen to kill Boyka, but Boyka kills all of Zourab's henchmen and chases after him. Boyka gets shot, but he grabs Zourab and chokes him to death. An injured Boyka asks Alma if she can forgive him for what he did to Viktor and is arrested by the police. Six months later, Alma visits Boyka in prison and tells that she finally forgives him. Boyka continues fighting in the prison to pursue the title of most complete martial artist in the world.

