A comatose man of unknown identity and origin is being cared by Dr. Ailin in a rural hospital on a small island. The man eventually wakes up after two months with no clear memory of how he was injured or even his identity. He adopts the name Ishmael from ''Moby-Dick'', which Ailin is reading. The man learns that he was found on the beach by a man named Romli.

Meanwhile, a mobster named Lee and his henchmen Rika and Besi violently eliminate a rival gang. One of the gang's survivors tells Lee about Ishmael and Lee sends the man to investigate. Ishmael and the thug have a brief altercation after the man threatens Ailin. Ailin travels to the mainland to seek better care for Ishmael, but her bus is stopped by Lee's men, who are looking for Ishmael (whom they call Abdi). They slaughter all the passengers except Ailin and a young girl, whom they abduct. Called by Ailin, Ishmael and Romli hurry to the scene of the bus attack. Ishmael kills a few of Lee's thugs, but Romli is also killed. An Interpol agent tells Ishmael about children abducted by Lee's syndicate and bred to be devoted smugglers and criminal enforcers; Ishmael was one of those children. 

The agent is killed when a group of Lee's assassins attack the police station in an attempt to take out Ishmael/Abdi. Ishmael puts down the attackers instead and escapes. Ishmael must then go to war with the syndicate to save Ailin. While traveling, Ishmael encounters Besi near a well, and it is revealed that he, Besi and Rika trained together. Lee would put children in the well and starve them for a few days and the child, who killed all the others to get the food would be freed. Ishmael tries to persuade Besi to not be on Lee's side, but Besi refuses out of loyalty. They then begin to fight and Ishmael manages to gain the upper hand, killing Besi with a strong hit to the head. After Besi dies, Rika discovers his corpse and attacks Ishmael on the beach.

Ishmael eventually defeats Rika despite receiving multiple wounds from the latter, and it is revealed that Rika was the one who shot Ishmael and gave him amnesia in the first place. Rika takes advantage of the distraction and holds Ishmael at gunpoint, but she can't bring herself to shoot Ishmael again, where she instead shoots away from him, wasting her bullets. In the confusion, Ishmael accidentally mortally injures Rika by reflexively throwing a knife. After comforting Rika in her dying moments, Ishmael finds Lee's hideout, where he and Ailin meet each other during the chaos, with Ailin initially hostile to Ishmael due to their relationship resulting in her kidnapping. Ishmael manages to convince her and they mutually embrace. 

However, Lee arrives and gets enraged that Ishmael killed both Besi and Rika, whom he had considered as his "favorite children". They then enter a brutal fight, with Lee gaining the upper hand due to his strength. However, Ishmael finally beats Lee outside, and impales him on the sharp branch of a tree trunk. In a last-ditch effort, Lee attempts to kill Ishmael by impaling him on the same sharp tree trunk, but Ailin saves Ishmael. Lee finally succumbs to his wounds and dies. Ailin is recovering in the hospital, with Ishmael wounded severely. However, Ishmael wakes up with Ailin by his side and Ailin smiles, hinting at a possible rekindling between them.

