Twelve years after exposing Blackbriar, ex-CIA agent and Treadstone operative Jason Bourne has finally recovered from his amnesia, isolating himself from the world and making a living as a street fighter in Greece. In Reykjavík, Treadstone technician Nicky Parsons, who has been collaborating with a hacktivist group led by Christian Dassault, hacks into the CIA's server to expose its black ops programs. In the process, Parsons finds documentation concerning Bourne's recruitment into Treadstone and his father's role in the program. She travels to Athens to inform him. 

Parsons' information breach alerts Heather Lee, the CIA’s cybersecurity operations division head, and CIA Director Robert Dewey. They send teams after Bourne and Parsons, who have arranged to meet in Greece at Syntagma Square during an anti-government protest. Dewey also sends the Asset, an ex-Blackbriar operative who was captured and tortured in Syria as an unintentional consequence of Bourne's exposure of Blackbriar. Parsons is shot by the Asset, and the key to a locker holding the CIA files falls out of her hand, which Bourne takes.

Seeking answers about his past and family, Bourne locates Dassault in Berlin. Dassault decrypts Parsons' files, and Bourne discovers that his father Richard Webb was a CIA analyst involved in the creation of the Treadstone program. A malware program implanted in the files gives the CIA Bourne's location while Lee remotely erases the files. Dassault attacks Bourne, but is incapacitated.

Lee secretly alerts Bourne to the CIA team closing in. She believes that he can be persuaded to return to the agency after seeing his behavior report. After avoiding the team, Bourne tracks Malcolm Smith, an ex-Treadstone operative, in London and arranges to meet him in Paddington Plaza. Meanwhile, Lee persuades Dewey's boss, Edwin Russell, the National Intelligence Director, to allow her to contact Bourne in person and attempt to bring him back in. Dewey, who opposes her plan, secretly instructs the Asset to eliminate her team and kill Bourne.

Bourne confronts Smith, who confesses that Webb was not just an analyst for Treadstone but played a significant role in creating it; Webb threatened to expose the program when he discovered that Dewey sent agents to recruit Bourne, as he didn't want his son to become one of their assassins. The Asset killed Webb under Dewey's orders in Beirut, framing it as a terrorist attack to incentivize Bourne to join Treadstone. The Asset interrupts and kills Smith when Bourne uses him as a human shield, and then Bourne escapes. He locates Lee, who admits she is uncomfortable with Dewey's methods and directs Bourne to a convention in Las Vegas.

Dewey is scheduled to attend a public debate with Aaron Kalloor, CEO of social media giant Deep Dream. Kalloor is the public face of corporate social responsibility in the Internet age, but was secretly funded by Dewey in the startup stage. Dewey intends to use Deep Dream for real-time mass surveillance alongside the latest incarnation of the CIA's targeted assassination "Beta" program, a more ruthless version of Blackbriar in which the assassin can murder anyone to get to the target. However, Kalloor has started having second thoughts about giving the CIA access to Deep Dream.

Dewey authorizes the Asset to assassinate Kalloor and Lee, having discovered that she is helping Bourne. Bourne thwarts the assassinations and confronts Dewey in his suite. Dewey attempts to stage an ambush, but is killed by Lee, whose involvement in Dewey's death is covered up by Bourne. Bourne pursues the Asset, and the pair ends up crashing into the Riviera casino. Bourne chases the Asset down into the sewers and engage in a fight that ends with Bourne killing the Asset.

Lee, whose involvement in Dewey's death was covered up, volunteers herself to Russell as the new CIA director. She outlines her plan to bring Bourne back to the agency, but is prepared to kill him if he refuses. Lee meets with Bourne, who says he will consider the offer. Lee returns only to realize Bourne had her and Russell's conversation recorded, indicating he was aware of her true intentions, as he disappears again.

