On crime lord Antonio Pope's boat, hacker A.J. is reviewing a list on the computer. Pope calls Port Commissioner Griffin, accusing him of stealing, which Griffin denies. Pope orders a hitman to eliminate the commissioner, then he tasks him to find who took his money.

Two years after the first movie, James is with partner Detective Mayfield, busting drug dealer Troy. He pulls a gun on James so Ben watching this over the camera, comes to help. He threatens Troy by acting tough, only to drop his badge. A shootout leads to Mayfield getting shot and Troy escaping. James and Ben chase him, and Ben nearly gets himself run over. James follows Troy through a parking garage, capturing him, and finding a necklace/flash drive on him.

Mayfield is hospitalized, and Lt. Brooks sends James to Miami to see who Troy was working for. Ben wants to go to prove he is ready for detective work, but nobody believes in him as he just caused such a mess.

At home, Ben begins to plan his and Angela's wedding, clashing with the wedding planner. Later, as Angela tries to seduce him, he complains about not being able to go to Miami. She calls James to get him to take Ben, both for him but also to get him out of her hair. Initially refusing, he changes his mind, thinking he can prove Ben is not detective material. They drive to Miami together.

Trying to use homicide detective Maya Cruz's computer without permission, she punishes Ben. Later, when they find A.J., he says a safe in a club contains something important, but first they have to meet someone there. At the club they find out the man is also Pope's hitman. A.J. creates a distraction to escape while James has a shoot-out with the hitman. Afterwards, with Maya they find the safe empty. Before they can take James' car, he realizes there is a bomb and it explodes.

Realizing he has A.J.'s phone, Ben contacts his girlfriend Tasha to locate him. He convinces her to cooperate by showing her that A.J.'s been hooking up with other women. When they find A.J., they bring him in on the investigation. He reveals that Pope is the real crook, despite his public image as an entrepreneur working with the new port commissioner, Nu単ez. The team is at the home of Maya's friend/associate, Alonso, whom Ben accidentally shoots. Despite this, Alonso confirms that Pope is a crook.

James, Ben and Maya go to a party in Pope's mansion. Maya distracts him dancing while James and Ben gather info, with A.J.'s help. After narrowly escaping Marcus the alligator, Ben reconnects with the team. They get their information, but Pope catches them and knows they are cops, he lets them go. They use the information to locate a group of shipping trucks that may be carrying Pope's contraband. However, when they stop the first truck at the port, it's empty. Hernandez scolds them, as Pope shows up and acts angry for what the team did.

The team goes to a bar to go over what went wrong. Maya wonders why Nu単ez showed up so fast at the port. When A.J. mentions Nu単ez is on Pope's payroll, James realizes it was a decoy, and the real contraband is being brought in somewhere else at the port. James, Maya and A.J. go after Pope, but leave Ben handcuffed to a pole. He breaks free, going to Alonso's to remove the cuffs.

James, Maya and A.J. are at the port in the morning to catch Pope. Ben arrives to the shoot-out, exploding a container full of flammable barrels. Pope escapes in a truck, taking A.J. hostage. When James does not find Pope in the truck, Pope shoots at him, but Ben jumps in the way of the bullet. James shoots Pope a few times then, as Ben is wearing a bulletproof vest, he uses Ben as a human shield when he shoots again. Maya shoots Pope down.

James and Ben are commended for taking down Pope and Nu単ez. They drive home in a yellow Lamborghini Maya got for them to take to Atlanta for the wedding. Ben and Angela get married and are ready to go off on a speed boat, but Ben asks James to make a speech. Reluctantly, he says that while Ben has gotten him into a lot of trouble since meeting, he has also saved his life, made Angela very happy, and helped him grow into a better man and cop. Ben and Angela then go on their boat ride, but Ben flies out of the boat when he hits a wake, amusing James.

