Jack Frost awakens from a frozen pond with amnesia and realizes that no one can see or hear him. 300 years later, the Man in the Moon warns Nicholas St. North that Pitch Black is threatening children with his nightmares. North calls E. Aster Bunnymund, the Sandman, and the Tooth Fairy to arms, and they are told that Jack Frost has been chosen to join them as a new Guardian. Bunny is sent by North to bring Jack to the North Pole and North explains to Jack that every Guardian has a center which they are the Guardian of.

Visiting Tooth's palace, Jack learns that every baby tooth contains the childhood memories of the children who lost it, Jack's teeth included. Jack wishes to find his lost tooth to recover his memories; however, Pitch raids Tooth's home, kidnapping her subordinate tooth fairies except Baby Tooth and stealing all the teeth. This prevents Tooth from sharing Jack's memories and weakens children's belief in her. To thwart Pitch's plan, the group decides to collect children's teeth themselves in place of the fairies. One of the children they visit includes Jamie, who wakes up. Since he still believes, he can see everybody except for Jack. Pitch's Nightmares attack and Pitch overwhelms Sandy, killing him.

As Easter approaches, the Guardians travel to Bunny's home next and paint eggs, determined not to let Pitch ruin Easter. Jack is lured to Pitch's lair. He finds his teeth there but is distracted long enough for the Nightmares to destroy Bunny's eggs, ruining Easter and causing children to stop believing in Bunny. With the Guardians' trust in him lost, Jack flees to Antarctica and battles Pitch, who breaks Jack's magic staff and throws him down a chasm. Unlocking the memories inside his teeth, Jack learns that he was a human teenager who drowned trying to save his younger sister. Inspired, he repairs his staff and rescues the kidnapped fairies.

Due to Pitch, every child in the world except Jamie disbelieves, drastically weakening the Guardians. Finding Jamie's belief wavering, Jack makes it snow in his room, renewing Jamie's belief and making him the first person to believe in Jack. Jack realizes that his center is fun and uses it to gather Jamie's friends and play, leading to renewed belief that bolsters their fight against Pitch and resurrects Sandy. The children's dreams prove stronger than the Nightmares, who turn on Pitch and drag him to the underworld. Jack finally accepts his place as the Guardian of Fun.

