In 1250 B.C, King Agamemnon unites the Greek kingdoms. Achilles fights for Agamemnon but despises his arrogance. Prince Hector of Troy and his brother Paris negotiate a peace treaty with Menelaus, King of Sparta. Paris begins an affair with Menelaus' wife, Queen Helen, and he smuggles her aboard his home-bound vessel. Menelaus meets Agamemnon, his elder brother, and asks him to help take Troy. Agamemnon agrees, as conquering Troy would give him control of the Aegean Sea. Agamemnon gets Odysseus, King of Ithaca, to persuade Achilles to join them.

In Troy, King Priam welcomes Helen, and prepares for war. The Greeks invade and take the Trojan beach with the aid of Achilles. Achilles has the temple of Apollo sacked, and claims Briseis—a priestess and the cousin of Paris and Hector—as a prisoner. He is angered when Agamemnon takes her from him, and decides that he will not aid Agamemnon in the siege. The Trojans meanwhile have assembled their entire army of 25,000 warriors. General Glaucus has confidence in Troy's defenses and the skill of their soldiers; however others argue for diplomacy, prompting Paris to declare he will challenge Menelaus for the right to Helen.

The armies meet outside the walls of Troy. Paris offers to fight Menelaus in exchange for Helen and the city being spared. Agamemnon, intending to take the city regardless, accepts. Menelaus wounds Paris, but is killed by Hector, who breaks the rules of combat to save his brother. Agamemnon orders the Greeks to crush the Trojan army, but the well trained Trojans halt their advance. With casualties mounting due to the Trojan archers and after Hector kills Ajax, Agamemnon is forced to order the retreat and the Trojans begin to mount a furious counterattack chasing the Greeks to the beach. Agamemnon gives Briseis to the Greek soldiers for their amusement, but Achilles saves her. Later that night, Briseis sneaks into Achilles' quarters to kill him; instead, she falls for him and they become lovers. Achilles resolves to leave Troy, much to the dismay of Patroclus, his cousin.

Priam orders Hector to retake the beach. Hector leads the entire Trojan army there and engages the Greek army; he fights a man he believes to be Achilles and kills him, only to discover it was actually Patroclus. The armies agree to stop fighting for the day. Achilles is informed of Patroclus' death and vows revenge. Wary of Achilles, Hector shows his wife Andromache a tunnel beneath Troy, telling her that should he die and the city fall, she should take their child and any survivors out of the city.

The next day, Achilles arrives and challenges Hector; they fight until Hector is killed. Achilles attaches Hector's corpse to his chariot and drags him to the beach. Priam sneaks into the Greek camp and implores Achilles to return Hector's body for a proper funeral. Achilles agrees and allows Briseis to return to Troy with Priam, promising a twelve-day truce so that Hector's funeral rites may be held.

The Greeks build a gigantic wooden horse as a peace offering and abandon the beach, hiding their ships nearby. The horse is brought into Troy. That night, Greeks hiding inside the horse emerge and open the city gates for the Greek army to begin the Sack of Troy. The Trojan soldiers rouse themselves and attempt to defend the city, but they are overwhelmed and slaughtered while civilians are killed or taken as slaves. Andromache and Helen guide some Trojans to safety through the tunnel. Paris gives the Sword of Troy to Aeneas, instructing him to protect the Trojans and find them a new home. As the Greeks penetrate the palace walls Glaucus leads the remaining Trojan soldiers in a last stand. The Trojans kill many Greeks but are ultimately overwhelmed and massacred : Odysseus kills Glaucus while Agamemnon kills Priam and captures Briseis, who then fatally stabs Agamemnon. Achilles fights his way through the city and reunites with Briseis. Paris, seeking to avenge his brother, shoots an arrow through Achilles' heel and then several into his body. Achilles bids farewell to Briseis, and watches her flee with Paris before dying. Troy is finally taken by the Greeks and a funeral is held for Achilles.

