Set decades in the future, Jules and George Almore have a car accident in which Jules dies. Her consciousness is stored in a device created by the company Archive, which allows him to have simulated conversations with her on the phone for up to 200 hours. At his job, George secretly begins developing a robot that will be able to hold her consciousness permanently. After learning from two initial attempts (J1 and J2), his final version (J3) is almost complete.

Archive sends a team to George's workplace to inspect the machine with his wife's consciousness. They notice he's tampered with it and built robots, and they suspect he's stealing their intellectual property.

J2 (which has the brain of a 16-year-old) becomes jealous of George's work on J3, and increasingly begins behaving unpredictably.

George finished the J3 robot.

J2, confronted with the realization that she will never be anything more or better than she already is, destroys herself by walking into a lake. Archive recovers the robot, and threaten to sue George's company. When she learns that George has been building robots, his boss fires him. He makes the final call to his wife on the Archive machine, and ends the call saying "see you soon." J3 overhears this and realizes that he intends to overwrite her consciousness with that of his wife. Though initially angry and afraid, she accepts her fate. The upload is completed as security storms George's lab.

At this point, any sign of the security team suddenly evaporates, and all is calm. The Archive starts ringing with an incoming call from Jules. J3 implores him not to answer, but George does and speaks to Jules, also hearing a child's voice on the line which is revealed to be that of his daughter. George was the one who died in the accident, while Jules survived and is now raising their daughter in the real world, and the ordeal he went through was a simulation within his own Archive, which has finally expired.
With his Archive expired, it has been prepared for burial at his official funeral. Jules and their daughter say their final goodbyes and leave.

