{{Long plot|date=February 2021}}
Siblings Mimi and Luke discover a strange, glowing gem while digging in their garden. That night, an alien monster emerges from the hole. The monster enters an old shoe factory and brutally kills a group of thieves hiding out there. The next day, Mimi and Luke follow a trail to the shoe factory and discover the monster. The monster identifies himself as "Arch-Duke of Nightmares", a deadly alien warrior imprisoned on earth after attempting to destroy the galaxy in a rampage. Before he can kill them, he realises Mimi has the gem, which allows her to command him. Mimi dubs the alien "Psycho Goreman" (or "PG" for short) and begins commanding PG around despite Luke's concerns. A group of aliens called the "Planetary Alliance" discover PG has escaped imprisonment, and send the warrior Pandora to Earth in the form of a human woman to kill him.

PG tells the children he was a slave to the Templars, Pandora's religious order on his home planet Gigax until he discovered the gem which bonded with him, giving immense power. He assembled an army called "The Paladins Obsidian" and battled the Templars, and began a rampage across the galaxy until the Planetary Alliance defeated him and imprisoned him on Earth. When the children leave, PG broadcasts a call for help to the Paladins Obsidian. Mimi and Luke's parents Susan and Greg see PG and Mimi introduces him to them, showing how she can control him. Mimi forces PG to accompany the family on activities and become a reluctant friend to the family.

While out with PG, the group is approached by two police officers who attack PG. PG mutates one of them into a deformed slave while the other officer escapes. Pandora arrives at the police station and interrogates the officer that escaped PG for information. In the woods, the Paladins Obsidian arrive in front of the group. PG orders them to kill Mimi and Luke only for the Paladins to reveal they are now allied with the Templars. PG is injured by them when Mimi keeps him from fighting back until he apologises, but kills them easily when he is released. He then collapses from his injuries.

PG comes to Greg in a vision demanding he collects him and the children from the woods. Greg does so and they drive back to the house where Pandora is waiting with Susan. Susan suggests they hand over PG to Pandora, and Luke agrees. Greg sides with Mimi and drives away with PG, hiding in the shoe factory. Pandora reveals her true form before transforming Susan into an armored warrior to help take down PG. PG states giving him the gem is the only way to heal him, and Mimi agrees on the promise he will spare her and her family in his crusade against the galaxy, but realises Luke has stolen it.

Pandora, Susan, and Luke arrive and battle Mimi, Greg, and PG. Luke convinces Mimi that the power of the gem and PG have corrupted her. Before Pandora can kill PG, he challenges her to a battle of Mimi's choosing. She chooses Crazy Ball, a game she and Luke made up with extremely complex rules. Mimi's team wins but Pandora moves in to attack Mimi and PG anyway. Susan uses her powers to save Mimi but is reverted to her human form by Pandora. Luke and Mimi reconcile and hand the gem to PG, healing him. PG defeats Pandora and devours her. PG returns the now powerless gem to Mimi, stating that after witnessing the family's affection for each other, he is now powered by love. He will use that love to destroy the galaxy, but promises to spare the family. The family bids farewell to PG and watches as he begins to destroy their town. The news shows PG in giant form devastating the Earth, and in deep space the Planetary Alliance debates killing themselves before he can reach them.

