In 1983, near the Shadow Mountains, recovering alcoholic Red Miller lives a solitary life with his girlfriend, artist and author Mandy Bloom. He works as a logger, while she has a day job as a gas station cashier. In their cabin by a lake, Mandy creates elaborate fantasy art, which Red admires greatly.

On her way to work one day, Mandy walks past a van carrying the Children of the New Dawn, a religious cult led by Jeremiah Sand. Sand is struck by Mandy's beauty and orders one of his disciples, Brother Swan, to kidnap Mandy with the help of the Black Skulls, a cannibalistic, demonic biker gang who regularly use a highly potent form of LSD.

That night, Swan drives out to the lake and summons the Black Skulls by blowing a mystical ocarina known as the ''Horn of Abraxas''. After Swan offers them a low-ranking member of the cult as a sacrifice, they break into the couple's home and subdue Mandy and Red. Afterwards, cultists Mother Marlene and Sister Lucy drug Mandy before presenting her to Sand. Sand, a failed musician, attempts to seduce Mandy with his psychedelic folk music, telling her that God had told him to take anything he wanted, but she instead laughs at Sand, infuriating him. In retaliation, he stabs Red, who is bound and gagged with barbed wire, before burning Mandy alive. After Sand and his followers leave, Red frees himself, mourns over Mandy's ashes, goes back inside, and falls asleep. After waking up from a nightmare, he consumes a bottle of vodka, tends to his wounds, and shrieks in agony, grief, and rage.

The next morning, Red fetches his crossbow from his friend Caruthers, who also provides him with freshly crafted bolts and information on the Black Skulls. Caruthers explains that the Black Skulls were former drug couriers who became sadomasochists after they consumed a bad batch of LSD. Before Red leaves, Caruthers warns him that his odds of survival are poor, but Red strives to hunt down the bikers after forging a battle axe. He shoots one with his crossbow and runs him down, but crashes his car and is captured in the process. At their hideout, Red breaks free from his restraints and kills the rest of the bikers. As he investigates their hideout, he consumes some of their drugs, causing him to instantly and severely hallucinate.

Seeking out a radio tower he envisioned earlier, Red encounters The Chemist, a mysterious drug manufacturer who worked with the Black Skulls. Sympathetic to Red's cause, he tells him where to find the Children of the New Dawn. At their makeshift wooden church in a quarry, Red kills Brothers Swan, Hanker, and Klopek, but spares the life of Sister Lucy. In the tunnels beneath the church, Red finds Mother Marlene and decapitates her. He then confronts Sand, taunting him by throwing Marlene's severed head at him before crushing his skull. He sets Sand's body and the church on fire before driving away. As Red drives, he starts envisioning Mandy in the passenger seat of his car, while the landscape behind him now appears fantastical and otherworldly.

