After two unsuccessful attempts to have a child, Michael and Madeline Matheson succeed the third time. They consult Madeline's midwife ex-girlfriend, Patricia, to perform an unorthodox delivery.

One night, Michael and the unborn baby are killed in a car accident . Madeline refuses to begin induction of labor, so Patricia allows Madeline to carry to term. Although initially stillborn, the baby is miraculously alive. Madeline names the baby Grace.

Back at Madeline's home, Grace is attracting flies due to her putrid scent. Madeline also realizes that Grace is unable to digest breast milk as she keeps vomiting. Whilst Madeline is nursing a crying Grace, she realizes that the child is feeding from her bleeding breast.

Meanwhile, Vivian, Michael's domineering mother, wants to visit Grace, but Madeline refuses to answer her calls. She visits Dr. Richard Sohn, an obstetrician she recommended. She convinces him to visit Madeline while looking to collect proof that she is an unfit mother.

Madeline continues to nurse Grace with her blood, which weakens her to the point that she allows Dr. Sohn into her home. He hears Grace cry weakly and starts to her crib. Fearing that he will take Grace away, Madeline kills Dr. Sohn.

Vivian arrives just as Madeline finishes draining Dr. Sohn's blood into a baby bottle. After exploring the house, Vivian agrees to leave, but instead finds Grace in her crib, and the bottle of blood broken on the floor. Madeline tries to pursue her, but Vivian is able to grab Grace and flee, discovering Dr. Sohn's body in the process. Vivian arms herself with a hammer; Madeline confronts her, and Vivian beats Madeline unconscious, but not before Madeline rips out part of Vivian's throat with her teeth. They are discovered by Patricia, who sees Grace drinking from Vivian's blood.

Some time later, Patricia is driving a motor home through the desert. She pulls over and goes to the back to check on Madeline, who's nursing Grace. She asserts that as long as Madeline keeps eating the proper diet, they can continue feeding and raising Grace. Madeline informs her that Grace has begun teething, revealing her mutilated breast.

