A young couple, Aki Miyasita and Kazuo Kojima, are snatched off the street while having their first date. They wake up shackled in a basement that has plastic-covered walls. A sadistic madman degrades, tortures, and mutilates them with no further explanation. He punctures Kazuo's belly with a screwdriver, slices his tongue, and drives nails into his scrotum. He sexually assaults both the man and woman, forcing the other to watch. Sometimes, he stops the torture to provide medical assistance and treat the couple's wounds, so they can continue to live for a longer period of time. He cuts off all their fingers, makes collars with them, pops out Kazuo's right eye, removes the girl's nipples, and cuts off her right arm.

As the torture progresses, it is revealed he is simply doing it for sexual stimulation. He finally castrates Kazuo, claiming he has found all the sexual relief he needs so no longer needs the couple's "services". The couple is moved to a room that resembles a modern and clean hospital room, where the kidnapper takes care of their wounds. It gradually becomes apparent that the man has professional medical training, refined manners, and fine taste, preferring classical music, good wine, and expensive clothes. He mentions he is wealthy, suggesting he may be a reputable surgeon, not merely a violent sadist, looking for an extreme way to obtain satisfaction in his lonely life. The couple notes that the doctor has a particular rotting smell behind his clean and elegant appearance.

After several days of healing, the "doctor" simply tells the couple they will be free to go. He will turn himself in, and, as an apology for all the suffering he inflicted, he will give them his entire fortune as compensation. In a moment alone, Aki and Kazuo promise to support each other once they leave and stay together. However, immediately after telling them they will be released, the couple is taken back to the basement and are shackled again, just like before.
 
The "doctor" announces they must participate in one final test of love. He pulls out some of Kazuo's intestines and attaches them to a hook. If Kazuo can cross the room to the other side (pulling his entire intestine out of his body in the process) and cut Aki's ropes with scissors to release her, both will be freed. However, Kazuo fails due to blood loss, and it is revealed that the ropes restraining Aki have a metal wire running through them; the task was therefore impossible regardless.

Aki begins to insult the doctor, saying he has a skunk odor. Angered, the doctor cuts off her head. The head lands on the doctor's neck; she bites him with her final breath. Kazuo, not dead yet, stabs him in the foot with the scissors as his supreme last action. The couple dies facing each other. In the epilogue, the madman is revealed to have survived, although he cannot walk properly. He respectfully buries the couple next to each other in a quiet forest the traditional Japanese way, leaving the scissors on their tombs as a symbol. The next scene shows him in his car again, covering himself with much perfume to hide his skunk stench. A girl walks by, and the screen cuts as he goes after his next victim.

