A woman named Katja gives birth to an infant that two mysterious figures immediately behead. Depressed and feeling his mortality, Katze decides to meet his old friend Brauth, who has a Christ-like appearance, at an old house where they used to delve into dark pleasures. They meet two sixteen-year-old girls, Melanie and Bianca. Together, they enter a bar where a woman, Anja, joins the group. Katze also finds two other old acquaintances attending: Heinrich, an elderly artist who claims to be a dead man, accompanied by a young woman named Clarissa, tied to a wheelchair. Clarissa can only excrete through a urine bag or artificial bowel outlet.

The group decides Katze can go out in style as their fun turns increasingly depraved and horrific. The film contains explicit representations of coprophilic and urophilic actions: one scene involves a man defecating on a woman while taking her panties off, wiping himself, and shoving the pair in her mouth, all the while gesturing harshly to put her finger in his dirty anus.

The protagonists begin to consume alcohol, opium and cocaine and think about different philosophical approaches during the same evening. Katze, Brauth and Anja reveal their nihilistic nature to the two girls, claiming they do not believe in heaven and will not be missed after dying. Then Katze, using a scalpel, deals cuts on Anja's breast as she vomits semen while cutting herself under the enthusiastic look of Brauth and the perplexed facial expressions of Melanie and Bianca.

The following morning, the group travels to a pond near a factory, where Brauth reveals that Katze does not have much time to live. During this, Melanie and Katze move away from the others. He meets a nun (Martina Adora) near a farm who leads him to a neighboring church. The nun begins to pray and then undresses and masturbates while Katze enters the crypts, watching the tombs with morbid curiosity; at the same time, Melanie assists in hunting and slaughtering a pig, and Brauth rapes Anja. Several newts, frogs, rats, cats and snails also get killed.

That night, Katze has an illness whose cause is attributed to Heinrich's indifference to God towards him. Brauth becomes tired of Clarissa's laments, slams her into a basement, and tortures her by ripping her colostomy device off, jabbing his fingers into the hole, then throwing her down from her wheelchair and abandoning her. During the night, Bianca awakens and claims that she "heard the voice of the dead." Katze checks and finds nothing but a rabbit hanged by Heinrich, beheaded and thrown by Katze.

Brauth connects with Melanie and Bianca the next day and locks them in a stable before sending Heinrich to abuse them. However, the two girls succeed in escaping- Heinrich later abuses Clarissa, who commits suicide the next morning, throwing herself off a cliff. At the same time, Anja finds the remains of the pig discarded by the butchers and is sexually excited by touching them while having a goat lick between her legs.

Young Bianca, derisively called Snow White, is also murdered by the group. After her womb has been removed with a knife, her skull is thrown. Katze and Brauth murder Heinrich by eviscerating him. Afterward, an orgy takes place in which the four remaining members of the group burn Heinrich, still alive, at a pyre while the participants engage in sexual acts and urinate into the fire.

Anja finds Katze in a confused state, bruised and pained. Bianca comes crawling from the old house while Melanie looks at a tiny skull inside a pendulum clock and finds a tape containing the scene shown at the beginning. The figures who killed the infant are Katze and Brauth, and the skull found in the clock is the infant's. Melanie crushes the cassette and uses the tape to masturbate while Bianca is reached and beaten by Anja, Heinrich, Katze, and Brauth. The latter then knocks her with a knife and abandons her. From the flames, a flash hits Katze's face, permanently blinding him. There are only a few hours left for him to live, and the following afternoon, Anja accompanies him to his tomb, where he speaks. Anja honors Katze by ornamenting his grave before reuniting with the nun and walking away silently.

