Ray Harris (Jordan Lawson), a med student, sits in his dorm, watching stag films and shooting what at first appears to be heroin but is later revealed to be an experimental drug called "Taldon". He hears a knock on his door and answers it. He is greeted with the sight of a fully nude woman, who makes sexual advances towards him. He reciprocates, only for the woman to metamorphose into a grotesque man with a freakishly large penis. The man attacks Ray, and it is strongly implied (and later confirmed) that the man rapes and kills him.

Ray's friends Meg, Joe and Annie learn of Ray's death. Another consort of Ray's, Sebastian, suspects Joe of killing Ray in a bizarre sex game, as Joe was the last person to be seen with Ray. Justin joins the four of them at Ray's funeral. Meanwhile, police are baffled to learn that Ray died after a phallus, fifteen inches in length and four inches in diameter, pulverized his colon. The five remaining students come under suspicion and are interrogated. However, no evidence implicating them in the crime exists and they are allowed to leave. A flashback shows the six friends using Taldon, the drug found at the scene of Ray's murder, and reading the case files of John and Wilma Hopper, a serial killer couple that was the subject of an intensive study at the school when it was still a mental hospital. They hypothesize that the Hoppers, long thought to be dead, have returned via astral projection.

Sebastian and Annie park at a secluded place in the woods to make out. Annie grows annoyed by Sebastian's aggressive sexual behavior and is dropped off. Shortly thereafter, she comes face to face with a demonic Wilma Hopper, who uses her genitalia to asphyxiate Annie. Back at the hospital, a detective reading information about the Hoppers is attacked by the reanimated John Hopper, who forces the detective to perform fellatio on him. Meg, after sharing a romantic evening with Justin, research Taldon. It is revealed that the drug is a hallucinogen that stimulates the central nervous system to dangerous proportions. Her research is cut short when she is attacked by the now-undead detective from earlier, who chases her down the halls of the hospital before being gunned down. John Hopper, taking the form of Annie, seduces and kills Sebastian by anally raping him to death.

Meg, who had earlier passed out after her encounter with the possessed detective, lies on a hospital bed, recovering. She is joined in the same room by Justin. Justin, believing himself to be trapped in an artificial reality, guns down Joe and another detective before committing suicide. Everything that has happened is revealed to be Justin's dying hallucination; he and his friends had overdosed on Taldon the night they first read about the Hopper spree. Justin is at first believed to have died with his friends (with the exception of Meg, who had sworn off drugs) but miraculously survives.

