In an underground laboratory, engineers Gary Sitterson and Steve Hadley discuss a mysterious ritual, after a similar operation in Stockholm just ended in failure.

American college students Dana Polk, Jules Louden, Curt Vaughan, Holden McCrea, and Marty Mikalski are spending their weekend at Curt's cousin's cabin in the forest. From the lab, Sitterson and Hadley remotely control the cabin and manipulate the students by intoxicating them with mind-altering drugs. In the cabin's cellar, the group finds bizarre objects, including the diary of Patience Buckner, a cabin resident abused by her sadistic family. Dana recites incantations from the diary and inadvertently summons the zombified Buckner family.

Hadley releases pheromones to induce Curt and Jules to have sex outside. They are attacked by the zombies and Jules is decapitated while Curt escapes. Marty discovers concealed surveillance equipment in his room before being stabbed and dragged off by a zombie. The lab workers learn that the rite in Japan has also failed, meaning that the American rite is "humanity's last hope". Curt, Holden, and Dana attempt to escape in their RV, but Sitterson triggers a tunnel collapse to block them. Curt attempts to jump a ravine on his motorcycle to seek help on the other side, but crashes into a force field and falls to his death. Holden and Dana then realize that their experience is staged and controlled. Holden is killed by a zombie while driving the RV, causing it to crash into the lake, but Dana manages to escape.

The lab employees, seeing that Dana is the only survivor, celebrate the success of the rite, but then discover Marty is still alive. Marty takes Dana to a hidden elevator he discovered. They descend into the lab and discover a large collection of different monsters in cages. Dana correlates them with the objects in the cabin's cellar and realizes that the objects determine which monsters are released. Cornered by security personnel, the pair release all the monsters, which wreak havoc and slaughter the staff; Hadley is killed while Dana accidentally stabs Sitterson.

Dana and Marty discover an ancient temple, where they are confronted by "The Director." She explains that worldwide annual rituals of human sacrifice are held to appease the Ancient Ones, a group of cruel subterranean deities. Each region has its own ritual, and the American ritual involves the sacrifice of five archetypes: the whore (Jules), the athlete (Curt), the scholar (Holden), the fool (Marty), and the virgin (Dana). The order is arbitrary as long as the whore dies first and the virgin dies last or survives. The Director urges Dana to kill Marty to complete the ritual, as all other rituals failed that year. Dana is attacked by a werewolf, while Patience kills The Director; Marty proceeds to kill all except Dana.

Deciding that humanity is not worth saving, Dana and Marty share a joint. The temple floor collapses and a giant hand emerges from the ground, destroying the facility and the cabin as the world ends.

