Alice is in a psychologically abusive relationship with her boyfriend, Simon. After taking a vacation with friends, she decides to reassess her relationship with Simon and attempts to break her codependency.<ref>{{Cite web |url=https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/alice_darling |title=Alice, Darling (2022)|website=Rotten Tomatoes |language=en |accessdate=December 11, 2022}}</ref>

Simon allows Alice out for a rare evening at a bar with her two best friends Tess and Sophie. The women notice that she is distracted and flinches at each ping from her phone, and throughout the evening she constantly touches her hair. It is implied that Alice met Simon in Tess' circle. However, despite Simon's connection to Tess, he seems to be removing her from her friends. Sophie proposes that they should celebrate Tess’ birthday at her parents' house up north, which Alice readily agrees to. Rather than tell Simon the truth, she informs him it is a work trip to Minneapolis.

On the trip to the cottage, the trio makes a quick stop at a convenience store, where Alice spots a flyer for a missing girl, Andrea. The missing person case seems to consume Alice.

The three women spend time together at the cottage, the rural town and a lake near the cottage. Simon discovers where they are from reading Alice's emails and calls her, demanding she leave and return to him. Alice packs up but Tess hides her phone and wallet, while Sophie goes to the store as an excuse for Tess and Alice to spend time together. Tess tries to teach Alice to paddle board on the lake. She jokingly rocks the board thus Alice falls off and loses her earring, a gift from Simon. Alice in a panic dives down to find the earring. Unsuccessful, she returns to the shore where she suffers further panic attacks muttering the phrase that she "can't do another thing wrong". When pressed by Tess they have an argument and Alice confesses that she hid their vacation retreat from Simon. Tess immediately questions Alice's well-being. Alice cancels her plan to leave and the next morning she joins the search party for Andrea. Somewhere near an abandoned cottage she finds lipstick and thinks it belongs to Andrea.

Back in the cottage, the women repair their friendship and have a good time. Alice starts opening up to her friends, even at one point telling them that Simon never hurt her physically but eventually admitting Simon subjected her to emotional abuse. Alice stops responding to Simon's messages, leading him to show up unannounced with grocery bags in hand. That evening at a very tense dinner, Simon pulls out a newspaper showing the news that the body of the missing girl was finally found. Alice takes out the lipstick and says what she thinks about it. Simon condescendingly attempts to shut her down.

The next morning, Alice packs and leaves the cottage, surprising her friends. On the way to the main road, Simon stops his car at a junction allowing a long line of cyclists to pass. Sophie catches up with the car and breaks the back windshield using a maul. Alice gets out and locks eyes with Sophie, signalling to her friend that she doesn't want to go with Simon. Simon meanwhile demands for Alice to get back into the car, but she firmly  declines. Tess steps in between Simon and Alice forcing Simon to give up. He walks back to the car and aggressively throws Alice's possessions out before driving away.

The film concludes with Alice riding the paddle board and taking a dive into the lake.

