In Chennai, an outlaw motorcycle gang known as ''Satan's Slave'' are involved in drug rackets, snatch theft and murders, which are headed by Naren aka "Wolfranga". With the increase in such crimes getting out of hand, the city commissioner Vijayakumar assigns the case to ACP Arjun Kumar from Madurai, who is known for his peculiar way of handling justice; breaking one of the limbs of the convicted so that they never repeat their crimes, originating from the moral values instilled by his mother Lakshmi.

Arjun is the sole breadwinner in his family consisting of Lakshmi, his drunkard older brother and his wife, his married younger sister and younger brother Ashok "Kutty", an unemployed graduate. Kutty is constantly looked down by his sister's in-laws,  whose daughter he is in love with, for his unemployment, worrying Arjun and Lakshmi. Collaborating with his partner and friend Sophia, Arjun finds the corpse of a man in a hostel whose friend had betrayed the gang and supplied drugs to him. However, the former had burned the drugs and committed suicide by hanging, while the latter had been killed by the biker gang upon learning of his betrayal. Arjun finds the man's helmet in his room and finds out that he was a snatch thief who used a stolen motorcycle purchased from an online black marketeer. Arjun and Sophia both figure out the sequence of crimes done by Satan's Slave.

The bikes used in the crimes had been bought from the same platform using stolen mobile phones via dark web and that all these crimes are done by the same organisation. After sending one of his colleagues, posing as a mercenary to thugs retired from the drug peddling business to find out the kingpin. Arjun learns about Wolfranga and a bike chase and close-combat ensues where Arjun manages to defeat Wolfranga and the gang and arrests them, but to his shock, finds out that Kutty had also been involved with the gang. While taking them to prison, Satan's slaves attacks the convoy, kills the policemen and aid Wolfranga to escape. Arjun tries to corner him, but he is knocked by Kutty, who escapes with the gang.

Arjun gets demoted from the case due to Kutty's involvement and the case is handed over to DCP Rajangam and IG Anbarasu, both of whom are envious of Arjun. Unknown to anyone, Rajangam and Anbarasu are moles of Wolfranga and don't pay heed to the case. Lakshmi refuses food and drink out of guilt of seeing Kutty going astray, prompting Arjun to take matters into his own hands and solve the case himself. With Sophia's help alongside a few trusted aides in the cybercrime department, Arjun captures one of the mules and asks him about the gang and how Kutty got entangled into the dirty business. Kutty had become acquainted to Wolfranga after he was humiliated in front of his family by his sister's in-laws due to his unemployment and refused to let their daughter marry him. Wolfranga indoctrinates him, saying that family are selfish individuals whose affection is a trick to make their children serve them in their old age.

Wolfranga runs his business using unemployed graduates who are outcast due to unemployment and as a result are motivated by ''money buys everything'' ideology. After fishing out the abandoned, stolen motorcycles from a derelict quarry, Arjun is reassigned the case where he and Sophia plan to expose Rajangam and Anbarasu's involvement with Wolfranga to Vijayakumar. Wolfranga kidnaps Arjun's family and holds them hostage and blackmails Arjun to steal a metric ton of seized cocaine from the treasury to release them, but Wolfranga tells Rajangam to kill Arjun and pin it on Kutty and hand him the seized cocaine to be incinerated. Wolfranga gives an empty gun to Kutty and tells him to pretend to shoot Lakshmi in order to shake her selflessness, while he secretly loaded a single bullet in the gun, but realising Lakshmi's love and her readiness to die for him, Kutty inadvertently shoots Wolfranga's girlfriend Sarah dead.

Kutty reunites with his family, but is badly beaten and taken hostage as well. Arjun successfully steals the cocaine, exposing and capturing both Rajangam, Anbarasu and the remaining mules. Arjun arrives at the hideout and fights Wolfranga, defeating him. The team successfully hacks Satan's Slaves's server and lures the bikers to the hideout. Upon arrival, they find Wolfranga dead, and are surrounded and arrested by the police force. At the station, Arjun convinces the bikers to work hard and solve the problems and mentions the importance of the parents's love for them and the pleasures they sacrificed for their children, releasing them. The case is successfully closed, while Arjun and the police force are applauded by the public. Owing to their efforts, the police organise a program to rehabilitate youngsters from depression and drugs.

