In 6,800 BC, a giant explosion sends a megatsunami toward the city of Atlantis. Leaving behind her husband, the King, and their daughter Princess Kida, the Queen of Atlantis merges with a floating crystal, creating a protective dome over the city's innermost district as the tsunami sinks the continent and city beneath the waves.

8,714 years later, in 1914, Milo Thatch, a budding Smithsonian Institution linguist and cartographer ostracized for his dream of finding Atlantis, is introduced by Helga Sinclair to eccentric millionaire Preston B. Whitmore, an old friend of Milo's late grandfather Thaddeus. Whitmore reveals that he made a bet with Milo's grandfather to fund an expedition to Atlantis, which Milo is to join. Whitmore gives Milo the Shepherd's Journal, a book describing the history and path to Atlantis. The expedition is headed by Commander Rourke and includes his second-in-command Helga; demolitions expert Vinny; geologist Molière; medical officer Dr. Sweet; head mechanic Audrey; radio operator Mrs. Packard; chef Cookie; and dozens of soldiers and sailors. Their submarine, the ''Ulysses,'' is attacked and destroyed by a mechanical leviathan guarding the entrance to Atlantis, leaving only a handful of survivors. Following the journal, they travel through a dormant volcano and eventually arrive at Atlantis, where they are met by the still-young Princess Kida.

Against her father's wishes, Kida enlists Milo to help Atlantis recover its history, as its culture and knowledge have been decaying for centuries. Milo learns that a huge crystal, the Heart of Atlantis, gives the people longevity, and once powered their machines via smaller crystals they wear. He also discovers that Rourke and the rest of the crew knew of the Heart and used the expedition as part of Rourke's secret plan to steal and sell it to the highest bidder, which would cause the inhabitants to die. When the king refuses to reveal the Heart's location, Rourke fatally wounds him. Rourke eventually finds the Heart himself; sensing the threat, the giant crystal merges with Kida. Rourke imprisons her in a crate, whereupon Milo convinces the crew to turn on Rourke, unwilling to be responsible for the Atlanteans' extinction. Rourke, Helga, and the soldiers start for the surface with Kida and destroy the bridge to trap the others behind. The dying King gives Milo his own crystal, explaining that he had tried to weaponize the Heart, which caused the prior explosion and the fate of his wife. He says the Heart selects a royal host when the city is in danger, and begs Milo to save Atlantis and Kida, who will be lost to the Heart forever if not separated from it in time.

Milo and his friends rally the Atlanteans to reactivate their flying machines and pursue the mercenaries. They defeat Rourke's men, but Rourke and Helga attempt to escape with Kida. Rourke betrays Helga and throws her to her death, but not before she shoots and damages the airship containing Kida's crate, and the fighting Rourke and Milo. As the airship burns, Milo slashes Rourke with a crystal-charged shard of glass, turning Rourke into a crystal monster who is shattered and killed by the ship's propellers. The airship awakens the volcano as it crash-lands; Milo and the rest flee back to Atlantis with Kida, who, still merged with the Heart, rises into the sky and awakens ancient Stone Guardians, who create a dome to protect Atlantis from the lava flow. Once the danger is neutralized, the Heart returns Kida, alive, to Milo.

Milo elects to stay in Atlantis with Kida, whom he has fallen in love with. The crew returns to the surface, each gifted with a small Atlantean crystal and a portion of treasure. Whitmore reviews photographs of the adventure taken by Mrs. Packard, but makes the others swear to secrecy to preserve Atlantis' safety. Whitmore also receives his own Atlantean crystal enclosed in a note from Milo. Meanwhile, back at Atlantis, Milo and Kida honor her late father by orbiting a carved stone effigy of him, along with those of other past Kings, around the Heart of Atlantis as it once again hovers above the newly restored city.

