{{Long plot|date=April 2022}}
During Halloween in 1950, Harvey Pekar refuses to dress up as a superhero while trick-or-treating. A few years later, 
we see Harvey walking the Cleveland streets. Then real Harvey Pekar appears in a documentary-style setup. In 1975, a scratchy-voiced Harvey visits a throat doctor and exhibits hypochondria. Harvey's wife decides their "plebeian" lifestyle just isn't working for her anymore; without being able to speak, Harvey is powerless to convince her not to leave him. A few months later, Harvey is at his file clerk job for the US Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) at a VA hospital. Mr. Boats comes by to offer advice: the words of an Elinor Wylie poem.

In a documentary scene, the real Harvey Pekar talks about his years as a part-time used-record collector/salesman. The narrative flashes back to 1962. While searching for old records at a yard sale, Harvey meets shy greeting card illustrator Robert Crumb. A friendship is formed over a shared love of jazz and comic books. Returning to 1975, a now popular Crumb is back in Cleveland for a visit. His marriage over, Harvey is lonely and frustrated; he wants to leave a mark on the world. Afterward, a sobering moment in the VA hospital's "deceased" files section leads Harvey to try drawing his own stories, but his lack of drawing talent stops him. An incident at the supermarket revives him, as his animated subconscious goads him: "Are you going to stand there in silence, or are you going to make a mark?" Inspired, Harvey stays up all night writing. At a diner with Crumb, Harvey makes a pitch for a new kind of comics. He shows Bob the scripts he's been working on, and Crumb offers to illustrate them for him.

A montage of classic Pekar quotidian moments culminates with Harvey proudly showing off ''American Splendor'' #1 to his VA co-workers. Harvey has published eight issues of ''American Splendor'' to critical acclaim but little financial gain; he's still a "flunky file clerk." Harvey runs into Alice Quinn, a woman he briefly knew in college. They catch up on each other's lives and talk about Theodore Dreiser's novel ''Jennie Gerhardt''. Harvey leaves their encounter feeling more alone than ever before.

Meanwhile, in Delaware, Joyce is frustrated with her partner in the comic book store, who has sold her copy of ''American Splendor'' #8 out from under her. She writes to Harvey, he responds, and they discover they are kindred spirits. Joyce travels to Cleveland to meet Harvey in person. The date begins with a handshake and dinner at a local family restaurant. Back at Harvey's apartment, Joyce is overcome with a bout of nausea and vomiting. A concerned Harvey offers her chamomile tea. Charmed, Joyce suggests they "skip the whole courtship thing" and get married. It's one week later, and Harvey sees his VA colleague Toby Radloff sitting in his car eating White Castle sliders. Toby is on his way to Toledo to see the new movie ''Revenge of the Nerds''. Meanwhile, Harvey is on his way to Delaware to marry Joyce and help her move out to Cleveland. Sitting alongside the real Harvey, the real Joyce Brabner talks about what it was like to become a character in Harvey's stories.

Now married, Harvey and Joyce go to a screening of ''Revenge of the Nerds'' with Toby. Joyce and Toby found the film inspiring, and Harvey found it insipid. Back at their apartment, Joyce struggles with feeling at home amidst all of Harvey's stuff. Their spat is interrupted by a message from a theater producer who wants to make ''American Splendor'' into a play. Harvey and Joyce travel to Los Angeles to see ''American Splendor: The Play''. Things are finally breaking Harvey's way. But his ascendancy is complicated by Joyce's emotional struggles. She wants a family. Her desires are put aside again because a producer calls to offer Harvey a chance to be a guest on ''Late Night with David Letterman''.

Harvey is a hit on the show and comes back for multiple appearances. Meanwhile, Toby becomes an MTV star. Back in Cleveland, someone recognizes Harvey from the Letterman show, but not for the "right" reasons. Harvey is angry and unfulfilled. Meanwhile, Joyce is looking for fulfillment of her own, as a creator and as an activist. Against Harvey's wishes, she goes away to a peace conference, leaving him at loose ends. One lonely night, Harvey discovers a lump on his groin.

Joyce is still away on her mission, and Harvey makes another appearance on the Letterman show. He dons an "On Strike Against NBC" shirt and the show goes downhill from there, winding up in chaos. Joyce finally returns, but she discovers Harvey's lump. Harvey is diagnosed with lymphoma. Joyce suggests he make a comic book of the whole thing, but Harvey just wants to die. Undeterred, Joyce enlists Fred, an artist, to illustrate the experience. Fred brings along his daughter Danielle on their first brainstorming session, and Joyce is smitten with the girl. Harvey reluctantly agrees to participate in the comic, and he asks Fred to keep bringing along Danielle.

Harvey's treatment is difficult. One night, an addled Harvey wonders if he's real or if he is just a character in a comic book, and whether the story will end or continue if he dies. In one continuous take, Harvey wanders through a dreamscape, musing about other people he finds in the Cleveland telephone book that are also named Harvey Pekar. One year later, Harvey and Joyce sign the completed ''Our Cancer Year''. Harvey is declared cancer-free. They adopt Danielle, and Harvey adjusts to being a parent. The real Harvey retires from the VA hospital; the hospital staff hold a retirement party, during which Joyce, Danielle and Harvey embrace.

