Returning home early from a business trip, real estate attorney Mitch Martin walks in on his girlfriend Heidi hosting an orgy, and breaks up with her. At his friend Frank's wedding, Mitch makes an awkward impression on his high school crush, Nicole, and soon moves into a house near Harrison University campus in upstate New York.

Mitch's friend Bernard throws a hugely successful housewarming party, dubbed Mitch-A-Palooza. A drunken Frank is seen streaking by his wife Marissa and her friends, straining their new marriage, while Mitch wakes up in bed with Darcie, a student he later learns is his boss' daughter and a high schooler. Kicked out by Marissa after an unfortunate couple's therapy session, Frank moves in with Mitch.

The friends are visited by an old acquaintance they used to ridicule: Gordon Pritchard, now the college dean, who has had the house rezoned exclusively for campus housing. Exploiting a university loophole, Bernard turns the house into a fraternity open to anyone, and the friends carry out hazing events throughout campus, much to Pritchard's displeasure.

At a birthday party for one of Bernard's children, Mitch walks in on Nicole's boyfriend Mark kissing another woman. Elderly fraternity member Blue dies of a heart attack during a "KY lube wrestling" match with two college girls at his birthday celebration, and Marissa asks Frank for a divorce.

Pritchard bribes student council president Megan Huang, promising to get her get into Columbia Law School in exchange for revoking the fraternity's charter. Nicole confronts Mitch after Mark lies that he caught Mitch with the woman at the party instead, and Mitch's attempt to explain is complicated by a run-in with Darcie. Pritchard has the fraternity evicted, placing the students in the now unsanctioned fraternity at risk of expulsion.

Mitch determines they have the right to bypass Pritchard's ruling if all members complete various assessments to prove their legitimacy. Frank defeats James Carville in a debate session, and the fraternity cheat their way through an exam with the help of Mitch's co-workers. In the school spirit evaluation, the fraternity loses points when Frank, dressed as the school mascot, unsuccessfully jumps through a ring of fire.

Megan confronts Pritchard for reneging on their deal, and the fraternity faces their final athletics challenge. A badly burned Frank gives a strong rhythmic gymnastics performance, Bernard manages to complete the rings routine, and Weensie, an obese member chosen by Pritchard, executes a perfect vault landing. The fraternity triumphs, but Pritchard gives them a failing score by accounting for the absence of Blue. Megan provides a tape recording of Pritchard admitting to bribery and, after a chase across campus, Frank recovers the tape.

Pritchard is fired and the fraternity's charter is reinstated, and they move into Pritchard's former residence. Nicole visits Mitch as he moves out of the old fraternity house, revealing that she dumped Mark after catching him cheating. They reconcile, and Mitch and Bernard return to their normal lives while Frank assumes leadership of the fraternity.

In a mid-credits scene, Mark drives off a bridge and lands on a fly-fishing Pritchard as the car explodes. Frank meets Heidi, who invites him to a "get-together," and he enthusiastically accepts.

