Byeong-gu, a childish man who believes that aliens from Andromeda PK 45 are about to attack Earth, is sure that he is the only one who can prevent them. With his childlike circus-performer girlfriend Su-ni, he kidnaps a powerful pharmaceutical executive, Kang Man-shik, whom he believes to be a top ranking extraterrestrial able to contact the Andromedan prince during the upcoming eclipse. After imprisoning the man in his basement workshop, Byeong-gu proceeds to torture him (he initially attempts to nullify the alien's transmitters using a Korean liquid painkiller, mulpad, which contains chlorpheniramine maleate and a "Italy towel" used by korean Ttaemiris.)

It soon seemingly appears that the executive's company poisoned Byeong-gu's mother in a pharmaceuticals test, and that it is in a vengeance fueled psychosis that causes Byeong-gu to believe the executive is an alien; not just childishly delusional, he also is clinically insane and hateful despite his happy “Earth savior” demeanor and loving relationship with Su-ni.

When a detective comes calling to investigate the disappearance of Man-shik, the executive tries to escape but is thwarted by Byeong-gu. The detective at first finds nothing unusual thanks to Byeong-gu’s attempts to hide hie involvement, but on his way out sees Byeong-gu's dog (appropriately named Earth) gnawing on the leg bones of his master's past victims. After contacting a partner in the police force he is killed by Byeong-gu's pet bees, then hacked up and fed to the dog. Byeong-gu then crucifies the executive and breaks his leg with the back of his axe to punish him for his attempted escape. In a desperate move, the executive convinces Byeong-gu that the bottle of benzene in his car trunk is the antidote for his comatose mother.

As Byeong-gu races to the hospital to deliver the antidote, the executive frees himself by pulling his hands through the nails. He then travels deeper into his captor’s lair, finding evidence of his grim research. Photos of mutilated corpses are littered with blood scrawled notebooks, while hands and brains of past ‘subjects’ reside in jars. Reading through the journals, the executive discovers Byeong-gu's traumatic past: his father was a coal miner who lost one of his arms due to his dangerous work and was killed by his wife when he attempted to attack her and his son. The child was beaten in school and was a victim of the sadistic whims of his cruel teachers. He showed early signs of violence, such as stabbing a fellow school mate with a kitchen knife. His mother was then poisoned in the aforementioned incident and at a protest his former girlfriend was beaten to death. He slowly went mad from the violence that surrounded him. The child would grow up to be Byeong-gu.

As this is happening, the dead detective's partner arrives and finds the frantic executive. And Byeong-gu, after desperately rushing to the hospital to give the 'antidote' to his comatose mother, killing her, becomes ever more enraged. He returns home to kill the alien, only to find the detective there as well.  After a brief struggle and a bizarre turn of events, he captures both of them and plans on killing them both.  The frantic executive then admits to being an alien and proceeds to spin an outlandish tale which stretches back to the time of the dinosaurs (the story heavily inspired from the biblical story and parodies scenes from the 2001:Space Odyssey), about how his race was originally trying to save humanity from a suicide gene (that leads to killing a member of their own species) by experimenting on the genetic code of his mother. He also agrees (while realizing the story might be based on the alien research notes he read about), in what appears to be a time-buying move, to contact the alien prince at the pharmaceutical company factory.

Byeong-gu leaves the detective all his notes, saying that if he does not make it, he will have the responsibility of saving the planet. At the factory, the executive triggers a computer controlled robotic arm to kill Su-ni, and after a long struggle, he beats his captor almost to death. When the police arrive, they shoot Byeong-gu, and as he bleeds to death he wonders aloud, "Now who will save the earth?"

When the aliens, who were real all along, do arrive and beam up the executive aboard their ship, we learn he is in fact the alien king himself. Disgusted and angered by the torture and corruption and evils of the world, he deems Earth a failed experiment and blasts it from creation. As the credits roll still photographs recap the entire journey of Byeong-gu's life, focusing instead on the beautiful, happy moments of a young boy and man with his father and mother and Su-ni.

