Two women discuss a cursed videotape that kills anyone who watches it in seven days. Having both watched it, an unseen entity kills them. Meanwhile, on a farm outside Washington, D.C., widowed pastor Tom Logan and his brother George discover Tom's daughter Sue screaming in the middle of a crop circle. 

Reporter Cindy Campbell discusses the crop circles on the news, but it is largely ignored. She cares for her nephew Cody, who has precognition powers. While picking him up from school, Cindy meets George who invites her and Brenda Meeks to a rap-battle. With support from his friends Mahalik and CJ, George bests Fat Joe, but is thrown out after unintentionally wearing a pointy white hood and waves to the largely African American crowd.

Brenda tells Cindy about the cursed videotape she watched and asks her to keep her company. After playing several pranks on Cindy, the girl from the tape, Tabitha, kills Brenda. George receives a phone call about Brenda's death, and Tom meets with Sayaman, who apologizes for killing Tom's wife in a car accident. 

During Brenda's wake, George and Mahalik wreak havoc in an unsuccessful attempt to revive her. Cindy finds the tape in Brenda's room, watches it, and receives a phone call warning her of her death in seven days. She calls George, CJ and Mahalik for help. CJ says his Aunt Shaneequa can help. Shaneequa discovers the hidden image of a lighthouse, which can break the curse if Cindy finds it. When Cindy returns home, she finds Cody has watched the tape. 

Desperate to save Cody, Cindy types a warning into the news anchor's teleprompter but her boss interrupts her and the anchor recites the wrong message. Meanwhile, the Logans encounter an alien disguised as Michael Jackson, and U.S. president Baxter Harris personally visits the farm to investigate the crop circles. 

Cindy visits the lighthouse, where she encounters The Architect. The loquacious old man explains Tabitha was his evil adopted daughter whom his wife drowned in the farm's well, but not before she imprinted her evil onto the VHS tape. He mistakenly returned it to Blockbuster, unleashing the curse. When Cindy asks about how this relates to the aliens, the Architect speculates that Tabitha is summoning them to aid her in destroying humanity.

Returning home, Cindy discovers Cody is missing, the news has been broadcasting the cursed tape for hours, and there have been various sightings of aliens around the world. She tracks Cody to the Logan farm, where he has taken refuge with George. Tom sends Cindy, Sue, and Cody into the basement for safety, as he, George and Mahalik go outside to fight the aliens with help from President Harris and the Secret Service. The aliens reveal they are friendly and have come to stop Tabitha after accidentally watching the tape on a broadcast they intercepted.

In the basement, Cindy recognizes the farm's cellar from the tape and she finds the well where Tabitha drowned. Tabitha appears and takes Cody hostage. Cindy and George appeal to her, offering her a place in their family. Tabitha falsely claims her curse is broken but as she attacks, President Harris opens a door and unintentionally knocks her into the well. 

The aliens depart and Cindy and George get married. Leaving for their honeymoon, they realize they left Cody behind. After Cindy narrowly avoids hitting Cody at an intersection, another car strikes him.

