Five youths rob a bank with the intention of shooting police officers. Inspector Chan Kwok-wing and his squad chase the gang and the entire squad is wiped out, including Hong, the younger brother of Chan's girlfriend Ho Yee. Chan is the sole survivor of the incident and takes a year long leave from the force to binge-drink until his new partner Frank Cheng tries to convince him to return and reopen the case.

Chan initially refuses, but changes his mind after apprehending two youths who robbed him while he was drunk. Chan's superior Chiu Chan, believing Chan's overconfidence was responsible for the disastrous raid, challenges them to solve the case before he does. Frank reveals to Chan he is kin of a deceased squad member. Former colleague Sam Wong reveals a clue from the first robbery, a watch he snatched from a robber. Wong says one of the gang is a woman and that they like to play X-games.

Chan and Frank are tailed by Chiu and the police at an upcoming X-Games event. Sam has been arrested to assist in the investigation. At the skyscraper rooftop event, Frank and Chan locate gang member Fire, while Sam and the police find the woman robber Sue. Fire fatally wounds Sam and escapes with Sue. Sam confesses he was blackmailed by the gang so they could ambush Chan's team. Chan and Frank chase Sue and Fire down the building on a tightrope.

Fire shoots a bus driver forcing Chan and Frank to break off the chase to save the bus. Chan's superior, Inspector Tai reveals that he never assigned a partner to Chan. Chan confronts Frank, who admits  he failed the exam to be a cop; he is neither a cop nor a kin of deceased squad member. Chan is convinced that Frank is sincere, and the two are briefed by Frank's friend, Constable Sa Sa, that the gang members come from rich families and their leader Joe is the son of the Deputy Commissioner of Police. The gang created online video games based on their raids.

At the gang's new hideout Joe kills Sue, who was critically wounded during the chase. The gang plants a bomb on Ho Yee and send her to the police station. The blast knocks Ho Yee into a coma. Frank's false identity is revealed and he and Chan are arrested. The gang taunts them about their next target. Frank and Chan are unofficially released to apprehend the gang.

Through the online game, Chan, Frank and Sa Sa learn that the gang's next target is the Bank of Hong Kong. To avoid another botched raid, Chan has the public removed from the building, and brings in the gang members' parents. Joe kills gang member Max for surrendering. Frank injures Fire before retreating from Joe's gunfire. Chan has hand-to-hand combat with Tin Tin before Tin Tin is shot by Joe's friendly fire. Chan follows Joe to the roof, where Joe threatens to throw Frank to his death. Joe challenges Chan to a race to assemble a semi-automatic pistol, which Chan wins by loading the bullet directly into the chamber.

The police arrive on the roof along with Joe's father. Chan attempts to persuade Joe into surrendering; Joe admits defeat, but aims his empty gun at Chan and then his father, choosing suicide by cop. Chan rushes to rescue Frank, and both of them fall from the building onto a fireman's inflated cushion. Joe's father resigns. In the hospital, Ho Yee has recovered and accepts Chan's marriage proposal. Frank is arrested for assumption of authority. Chan remembers comforting the orphan Frank as a child after Frank's father was killed by a truck while trying to steal food, prompting Frank to become a policeman and repay Chan.

