In the Kingdom of Cloister, legends speak of a magical crown that controls giants from a realm in the sky. 

A monk steals magic beans from the treacherous Lord Roderick. To escape, he exchanges the beans for a horse from farm boy Jack. He warns Jack not to get them wet. While Princess Isabelle seeks shelter at Jack's home, one of the beans is wet by rain and grows into a massive beanstalk. Isabelle is carried into the sky; her father King Brahmwell sends Jack, Lord Roderick, his best knight Elmont, and several other knights up the beanstalk to retrieve her. 

Upon reaching the giants' realm, Roderick corners Jack and takes the remaining beans, though Jack secretly keeps one. The group splits up, and all the knights are killed by the giants save for Elmont. Roderick reveals that he possesses the magical crown; the giants and their leader, Fallon, are forced to obey him. Roderick orders them to eat Isabelle, descend the beanstalk and conquer the world for him.

Jack kills the giant preparing to cook Isabelle and tricks another into falling to Earth. Brahmwell sees the fallen giant and orders the beanstalk cut down to prevent a giant invasion, putting the safety of the Earth ahead of Isabelle's return. Jack, Isabelle and Elmont make it back to the beanstalk; Elmont sends Jack and Isabelle down, while he stays behind to deal with Roderick. Jack and Isabelle barely make it to the surface before the beanstalk is cut, and admit their growing feelings for each other. 

Elmont fights and kills Roderick before riding the falling beanstalk down to Earth, but Fallon takes the crown and the remaining beans. He grows several more beanstalks down to Earth and leads the giants down to attack the humans. While Elmont and Brahmwell defend the castle against the giants, Fallon captures Isabelle and prepares to eat Jack. Jack throws the final bean down Fallon's throat; it grows into a beanstalk, ripping Fallon apart. Jack takes the crown, sends the giants back to their realm, and commands them to cut down the beanstalks.

Jack and Isabelle marry and have twin children. As time passes, their story evolves into the fairy tale known today, while the magic crown is crafted into St Edward's Crown.As time passes onto present day London, a touring class passes the crown in a museum where one boy, revealed to be Rodrick’s descendant, gazes at the crown knowingly.The giants' realm is shown to still exist above London in the modern day.

