As a young child, Michael "Mike" Wazowski visits the Monsters Inc. factory on a class field trip, to learn about how "scarers" harness human children's screams for energy to power the monster world. He secretly follows a scarer through a door to the human world to watch him work; initially upset, the scarer compliments Mike, prompting Mike to want to be a scarer himself.

Twelve years later, Mike enrolls in the scaring program at Monsters University, and is assigned Randall "Randy" Boggs as a roommate. He also encounters James P. "Sulley" Sullivan, the son of a famous scarer. On the first day of classes, Dean Abigail Hardscrabble, the president of Monsters University, warns that students who fail the first semester's final exam will permanently leave the scaring program.

Over the next few months, Mike works and studies hard to improve himself, while Sulley teases him and slacks off, relying on his "Sullivan" name and natural talent. Sulley and Randy also try to get into the top fraternity on campus, Roar Omega Roar (R立R). An intense rivalry begins to form between Mike and Sulley. On the day of the exam, Sulley and Mike's rivalry gets out of control as they attempt to outdo each other. They inadvertently destroy Hardscrabble's prized scream canister. She personally tests and fails them both; Sulley for rushing and lack of technical knowledge, and Mike for not being physically "scary".

Determined to prove his worth, Mike enters the Annual Scare Games with the misfit Oozma Kappa (OK) fraternity as his team, and makes a deal with Hardscrabble; if OK wins, they and Mike will return to the scare program, but if they lose, Mike will be expelled. As OK needs one more member to be an official team, Mike asks Randy for help, but he has joined the R立Rs, thus terminating their friendship. Sulley volunteers, and Mike reluctantly accepts.

Initially, due to Mike and Sulley's conflicting personalities, OK struggles in the games. They only pass the first round due to another team's disqualification for cheating, and the second due to exploiting a loophole in the rules. The R立Rs invite OK to a party, then stage an embarrassing picture of them and post it all over campus. The team becomes discouraged, so Mike takes them to Monsters Inc., where they sneak in and watch the scarers using their differences as advantages. After being chased off by the guards, the rejuvenated team begins to work together under Mike's coaching, and passes the next two challenges. In the final challenge, members of OK and R立R face off in the scare simulator, each trying to frighten a dummy child. OK wins after Mike racks up a maximum score with his scare, but Mike later discovers Sulley tampered with the simulator's settings to guarantee victory. The OKs abandon Sulley and their trophy in shame.

Determined to prove he really can scare, Mike sneaks through a door to the human world, into a summer camp cabin full of children; however, he is shocked to discover none of them are frightened of him. Sulley admits to Hardscrabble that he cheated before breaking in. Sulley apologizes to Mike, confessing that he just cheated because he was worried about disgracing the Sullivan name and letting the team down. The two avoid several park rangers and try to reenter the monster world, but find that Hardscrabble has deactivated the door to keep the other monsters safe.{{efn|Both movies make it clear that, before Sulley encounters Boo in ''Monsters, Inc'' (2001), monsters mistakenly believe human children are toxic.}} Working together, the duo manages to scare the rangers, creating enough energy to power the door from the other side, destroying the school's door lab in the process. 

Sulley and Mike are expelled from the university for their actions, but the other members of OK are allowed back into the scaring program. As Mike and Sulley leave, Hardscrabble admits they surprised her, and expresses her hope that they can continue to do so. The two go to work for Monsters Inc. in the mailroom, and over the years work their way up through the ranks until Sulley at last becomes a scarer, with Mike as his coach/scare assistant.

