In 1905 Kansas, Oscar Diggs is a magician and con artist in a traveling circus. The circus strongman learns Oscar has flirted with his wife and threatens him. Oscar escapes in a hot air balloon but is sucked into a tornado that takes him to the Land of Oz. There, he encounters the naïve witch Theodora, who believes him to be the wizard prophesied to become King of Oz by defeating the Wicked Witch, who killed the previous king. Oscar accepts the role, wanting to be a wealthy monarch. En route to the Emerald City, Theodora falls in love with Oscar though he does not reciprocate her feelings. They encounter the flying monkey, Finley, who pledges his life to Oscar when he saves him from a lion. Oscar reveals his deception to Finley and forces him to maintain the idea that he is the wizard.

At the Emerald City, Theodora's older sister Evanora tells Oscar that the Wicked Witch resides in the Dark Forest and can be killed if her wand is destroyed. En route to the forest, Oscar and Finley are joined by an orphaned living china doll whose village and family were destroyed by the Wicked Witch. Upon arrival, they discover the "Wicked Witch" is the late king's daughter Glinda the Good Witch, and Evanora is the true Wicked Witch. Observing through her crystal ball, Evanora tricks Theodora into thinking Oscar is trying to court all three witches, offering her a magic apple "to remove her heartache" by giving her the power to kill him, which turns her into a hideous green-skinned creature instead.

Glinda brings Oscar's group to her domain to escape Evanora's army of Winkies and flying baboons. She confides in Oscar that she knows he is not the wizard, but still believes he can help stop Evanora. He reluctantly takes charge of an "army" of Quadlings, Tinkers and Munchkins. Theodora arrives and angrily reveals her new hideous appearance to Oscar before threatening to kill him and his allies with the Emerald City's well-prepared army. Oscar despairs at his chances of victory, but after telling China Girl about his hero Thomas Edison, he conceives a plan that relies on trickery.

Glinda and her subjects mount a fake attack on the Emerald City using a pulley-rig army of mechanical scarecrow puppets hidden by thick fog. The witches are tricked into sending their flying baboons through a poppy field that puts most of them to sleep, but a pair of conscious baboons take Glinda hostage in the process, causing her to drop her wand, which the China Girl retrieves. Meanwhile, Oscar infiltrates the Emerald City with his allies but seemingly abandons them in a hot air balloon loaded with gold, which Theodora destroys with a fireball. As the Wicked Witches prepare to kill Glinda in the center of the city, Oscar, having faked his betrayal and death, appears, using a hidden smoke machine and image projector to present a giant image of his face as his "true" form, and intimidates them via a fireworks display. Evanora fearfully hides in her castle while Theodora flees on her broom, unable to hurt the "invincible" wizard. Oscar offers to Theodora the opportunity to return if she overcomes her wickedness, but Theodora vehemently declines and flies away to the West laughing maniacally, leaving Oscar saddened. After China Girl frees her from her restraints with her wand, Glinda engages Evanora in a magical duel in the throne room. Glinda destroys Evanora's emerald necklace, revealing her true hag-like appearance, and banishes her from the Emerald City, while a pair of flying baboons catch Evanora and carry her away into the East.

Oscar, now ruler of Oz, uses his projector to sustain the illusion of being a powerful wizard. Master Tinker, who helped build his machines, receives Oscar's jackknife while Knuck, the grumpy Munchkin herald whom Oscar previously referred to as "Sourpuss" in jest, receives a novelty mask with a smile painted on it; the long-suffering Finley receives Oscar's friendship and his top hat and China Girl accepts her friends as her new family. Finally, Oscar takes Glinda behind the curtains of his projector, thanks her for making him a better person, and they kiss.

