Eons ago, Bor—the father of Odin—clashes with the Dark Elf Malekith, who seeks to unleash a weapon known as the Aether on the Nine Realms. After conquering Malekith's forces, including enhanced warriors called the Kursed, on their home world of Svartalfheim, Bor sends the Aether to a hidden world that no one can reach. Unknown to Bor, Malekith escapes with his lieutenant Algrim and a handful of Dark Elves. They go into suspended animation.

In present-day Asgard, Loki stands imprisoned for his various crimes on Earth.{{efn|As depicted in ''The Avengers'' (2012). The events of ''Thor: The Dark World'' are set a year after the events of ''The Avengers''<ref name="Timeline" />}} Meanwhile, Thor and his companions repel marauders on Vanaheim to pacify the Nine Realms following the reconstruction of the Bifröst—the "Rainbow Bridge" between realms which was destroyed two years earlier.{{efn|As depicted in ''Thor'' (2011)}} The Asgardians learn that the Convergence, a rare alignment of the Nine Realms, is imminent; as the event approaches, portals linking the worlds appear at random.

In London, astrophysicist Dr. Jane Foster travels to an abandoned factory where such portals have appeared. Foster is teleported to the hidden world where the Aether is stored and it enters her body. Thor finds Foster and takes her to Asgard, where Odin warns that the Aether will not only kill her but herald a catastrophic prophecy.

Malekith, awakened by the Aether's release, attacks Asgard searching for Foster. Thor's mother Frigga is killed trying to protect her. Thor recruits the help of Loki, who knows of a secret portal to Svartalfheim where they plan to confront Malekith, in return for vengeance on Malekith for killing their mother. On Svartalfheim, Loki cuts off Thor's hand and tricks Malekith into drawing the Aether out of Foster but Thor's attempt to destroy it fails. Malekith merges with the Aether and leaves as Loki seemingly dies while killing Algrim.

Thor and Foster reunite in London with Foster's mentor Dr. Erik Selvig. They learn that Malekith plans to plunge the entire universe into darkness by unleashing the Aether at the center of the Convergence in Greenwich. Thor battles Malekith across multiple worlds and helps his mortal comrades use their scientific equipment to transport Malekith to Svartalfheim, where he is crushed by his own ship. Thor returns to Asgard, where he declines Odin's offer to take the throne. After he leaves, Loki is revealed to be alive and impersonating Odin.

In a mid-credits scene, Volstagg and Sif visit the Collector and entrust the Aether to his care, with the Tesseract already in Asgard, as they fear having two Infinity Stones so close together would be dangerous. As they leave, the Collector states his desire to acquire the other five Stones. In a post-credits scene, Foster and Thor reunite on Earth.

