Derek Charles works for a finance company and lives with his wife Sharon and their two-year-old son Kyle. While he is at work, he is friendly to a temp, Lisa Sheridan. Believing Derek was flirting with her, she tries to seduce him. 

Although Derek repeatedly rejects her, Lisa continues to pursue him, and makes sexual advances toward him at the office Christmas party. Later, she follows him to his car and flashes him until he forces her out of his car. Derek intends to report Lisa to human resources, but learns that she has quit her job.

Thinking that Lisa has given up, Derek is nervous when he receives flirtatious emails from her. He and his workmates visit a resort for a conference, where she shows up. When he confronts her, she spikes his drink. Incapacitated, she then follows him into his hotel room. 

Derek confronts Lisa again the following day, and hours later discovers her lying naked in his bed after attempting suicide, and calls for an ambulance. After repeated attempts to reach him on his phone, Sharon finds him at the hospital and suspects that he and Lisa had an affair, as Lisa claims. 

Detective Monica Reese questions Derek's fidelity to Sharon, but soon becomes skeptical of Lisa's claims due to inconsistencies in her story. Refusing to believe Derek, Sharon kicks him out of their house, and he moves into a separate apartment.

Three months later, Derek and Sharon reconcile over a birthday dinner. While they are out, Lisa tricks the babysitter Samantha into letting her into the house under the pretense of being one of Sharon's friends delivering a gift. 

When Derek and Sharon return home from dinner, they discover that Lisa has been in their house and taken Kyle. He goes to his car with the intent to pursue her, only to find Kyle is safely sitting in the back seat. He and Sharon immediately take Kyle to the hospital for a check-up. 

When Derek and Sharon return home, they find Lisa has trashed their bedroom and removed Sharon's face from their family portrait. Sharon leaves a threatening voice message on Lisa's phone, and she and Derek set up a home alarm system. Lisa learns that Derek and Sharon will be going out of town for a few days, with her leaving in the afternoon and he the next day. While Sharon is on her way to pick up Kyle, she realizes she forgot to set the alarm system so returns home.

Lisa breaks into the Charles' house and decorates the master bed with rose petals. While setting the alarm, Sharon hears the sound of a champagne cork pop. Going up the stairs, she confronts her, who then tries to convince Sharon that she and Derek are having an affair. 

However, Sharon sees through Lisa’s lie and tells her that she is going to call the police. Lisa tries to stop her and suggests they sit down and talk but an angered Sharon pushes her to the floor and they engage in a physical altercation. 

When Derek calls the home phone, Lisa answers, prompting him to alert Detective Reese as he rushes home. Sharon chases Lisa to the attic and leads her to a weak spot in the attic floor, where she falls through. When Sharon tries to help Lisa from falling all the way she reaches out her hand to her, but Lisa tries to pull Sharon down with her instead. Sharon pries Lisa off of her arm, causing her to grab hold of the chandelier she falls onto. 

The chandelier loosens and Lisa falls onto the glass table below, and is killed when the chandelier falls from the ceiling and crushes her. Detective Reese arrives as Sharon comes out of the house and embraces Derek. The detective enters their house to investigate.

