In Medieval Scotland, a young Princess Merida of the clan Dunbroch celebrates her birthday and is given a bow and arrow by her father, King Fergus, dismaying his wife Queen Elinor. While venturing into the forest to fetch an arrow, Merida encounters a will-o'-the-wisp. Soon afterward, Mor'du, a huge demon bear, attacks the family. Merida flees on horseback with Elinor, while Fergus and his men fend off Mor'du, though the fight costs the king one of his legs.

Ten years later, Merida discovers she is to be betrothed to the son of one of her father's allies. Elinor explains failure to consent to the betrothal could harm Dunbroch, reminding Merida of a legend of a prince whose pride and refusal to follow his father's wishes destroyed his kingdom.

The allied clan chieftains and their first-born sons arrive to compete in the Highland games for Merida's hand in marriage. Twisting the rules, Merida announces that, as her own clan's firstborn, she will compete for her own hand. Merida easily bests her suitors in an archery contest and, after arguing with Elinor, runs away into the forest. Wisps appear, leading her to the hut of an elderly witch. Merida bargains for a spell to "change" Elinor, and the witch gives her an enchanted cake.

Elinor eats the cake and is transformed into a bear, unable to speak but still retaining most of her human consciousness. Merida returns to the deserted witch's cottage with Elinor, and discovers a message from the witch: Merida must "mend the bond, torn by pride" by the second sunrise, or the spell will become permanent. Merida and Elinor are led by the wisps to ancient ruins, where they encounter Mor'du. Realizing Mor'du was the prince in the legend, Merida vows to not let the same thing happen to her mother, and concludes she needs to repair the family tapestry she deliberately damaged during their argument.

They return to the castle to find the clans on the verge of war. Merida intends to relent and declare herself ready to choose a suitor as tradition demands, but at Elinor's prompting, she instead allows the firstborns to marry in their own time to whomever they choose. The clans agree, breaking tradition but renewing and strengthening their alliance.

Merida sneaks into the tapestry room with Elinor, but Fergus walks in on them. Losing her humanity, Elinor attacks Fergus, but suddenly regains her composure and flees the castle. Mistaking the Queen for Mor'du, and thinking it has eaten his wife, Fergus pursues the bear with the other clans, locking Merida in the castle. Merida escapes with the assistance of her identical triplet brothers, Harris, Hubert, and Hamish, who have become bear cubs after eating the enchanted cake. Merida repairs the tapestry and pursues her father. Fergus and the clans capture Elinor, but Merida thwarts them before the real Mor'du arrives. Mor'du battles with the clan warriors and targets Merida, but Elinor intercedes, holding off Mor'du and causing him to be crushed by a falling menhir. This releases the spirit of the prince, who silently thanks Merida for freeing him and transforms into a wisp. Merida covers her mother in the repaired tapestry as the sun rises for the second time, but she remains a bear. Thinking it was for nothing, Merida reconciles with Elinor begging to have her back, unknowingly fulfilling the true meaning of the witch's message and reversing the spell's effects on her mother and brothers.

With Mor'du gone, Merida and Elinor work together on a new tapestry. After they are called to the docks to bid farewell to the other clans, they ride their horses together.


