In 1994, Sean Veil is acquitted of charges relating to an infamous triple murder. He becomes paranoid that the police are trying to frame him for this and other crimes. A book based on his trial called ''Darkness Invisible'' is released. The author, Saul Seger, accuses Veil. Veil responds by filming every moment of his life to provide himself with an alibi. However, some of his tapes go missing. Veil goes on the run, tries to create an alibi and investigates the conspiracy against him. Katie Carter, a young reporter, says she would like to help Veil prove his innocence but Veil refuses her offer.

Veil is assaulted and apprehended by police wishing to interrogate him. Veil shows detectives Emeric (who is dying of lung cancer) and Mountjoy the many tapes he has made. Emeric and Mountjoy leave but Veil finds one of his tapes is missing. Veil then becomes the prime suspect in the murder of a prostitute.

At the morgue, the prostitute's body is mysteriously replaced by that of Seger, who has had his throat cut. Veil is convicted and sentenced to 30 years' imprisonment. However, one of Veil's tapes proves his innocence and he is released. Veil returns home and is shocked to find Seger alive. Both Carter and Seger are guilty of serious crimes, for which they tried to frame Veil. Veil asks Seger who is trying to frame him but Seger refuses to say. In fact, Carter hired the prostitute to steal one of Veil's tapes and then killed her by accident. Carter's father killed his wife and family and then killed himself when he found his wife was having an affair. By coincidence, Veil was at the murder scene, leaving his fingerprints. Carter shoots Seger dead, then knocks Veil out. Waking up, Veil finds Carter raping him in order to frame him; she destroys his tapes afterwards. However, Carter finds herself feeling too guilty for her actions to kill Veil.

Emeric arrives at Veil's home. An altercation leaves both Emeric and Carter dead. Detective Mountjoy arrives. Veil shows him what happened as he has filmed the events on his webcam. Before the film ends, Veil makes a list of things to remember: whom to trust, how to be careful, how to be a step ahead, and how to prove one's innocence. He must never stop filming himself because being off camera is "like being off guard".

