Major Bennett Marco (Washington) commanded a U.S. Army unit during the Gulf War in 1991. His unit's member Sergeant First Class Raymond Shaw (Schreiber) was awarded the Medal of Honor for single-handedly engaging the enemy during their ambushed reconnaissance patrol in Kuwait and leading all but two men of the patrol to safety over three days through the desert. Shaw is now a U.S. congressman. His ruthless mother, Virginia Senator Eleanor Prentiss Shaw (Streep), uses her influence to secure his nomination as the vice-presidential candidate over the favorite, Senator Tom Jordan. Raymond is aloof and somewhat reserved, but opens up to his mother, although he still resents her role in the break-up of the relationship with his childhood sweetheart Jocelyn, Senator Jordan's daughter, prior to his enlistment.

Al Melvin, one of Marco's former soldiers, tells Marco of his confusing memories and dreams about their ambushed patrol. Though clearly mentally ill, he shows Marco his drawings of images from his dreams. Marco also begins to have dreams about that mission, in which he and the rest of the patrol are captured, tortured and brainwashed.

Marco starts investigating what really happened. He travels to New York City: on the train he meets an outgoing supermarket clerk who already identified him earlier, named Rosie. She offers him a place to stay in New York. While showering at her apartment, Marco feels a small lump on his upper back. He uses a knife to dig at the spot, and pulls out a tiny metallic object from under his skin, but accidentally drops it down the bathroom sink after Rosie, having listened to Marco's subtle sounds of distress, forces her way inside.

Marco confronts Raymond at campaign headquarters and during their joint lunch wrestles him down, biting into Raymond's back to remove an implant he suspects to be there. Marco is arrested but is subsequently released when Raymond decides not to press charges. Back at Rosie's apartment Marco recovers Raymond's implant which he had removed and kept hidden in his mouth during his detention. Marco has Raymond's implant analysed by his friend Delp (Bruno Ganz) who surmises that the implant's purpose was storage of emergency medical data, but also recollects that there was a parallel project for various kinds of implantables funded by Manchurian Global, a powerful private equity firm with major political connections, including Eleanor. After Delp administers ECT with methohexital to Marco at his request, Marco begins to have clearer recollections that he was brainwashed during the ambushed mission and that he and Raymond were forced to kill the two missing soldiers from his patrol. He begins to suspect that he's under surveillance and finds in Rosie's handbag cassette tapes with a file of information about him. Tapes turn out to contain recordings of his conversations with Rosie; his research on Manchurian Global in the public library leads him to the name of Dr. Atticus Noyle, the South African geneticist accused of human experimentation on political prisoners during Apartheid and involved in scientific research with novel memory implants for Manchurian Global. He brings his findings to Senator Jordan, who confronts the Shaws with clear connections between Dr. Noyle's work on deep implant behaviour modification under a research grant from Manchurian Global during Desert Storm, Marco and Raymond's patrol missing for three days in the desert, and subsequent dreams and recollections of the patrol's members; he suggests that Raymond withdraw from the campaign. Instead, Eleanor "activates" Raymond and orders him to kill Jordan. Jocelyn is also killed when she tries to stop Raymond.

When Marco confronts Rosie, she reveals she works for the FBI and has been following him undercover. Having found an implant in Melvin, who like all other members of Raymond and Marco's patrol died mysteriously, the FBI arranges a meeting between Marco and Raymond to convince them they were brainwashed under an assassination plot, which takes place just as Governor Arthur and Raymond win the White House. Raymond receives a phone call intended for Marco from Eleanor, by using trigger words, she gives the command to assassinate the President-elect so that Raymond becomes President and admits that she voluntarily gave him to the brainwashers for the country's benefit; Raymond resists the mind-control techniques, empowered by Jocelyn's death.

At the climactic moment, Raymond deliberately places himself between the entranced Marco and the President-elect. As Rosie rushes through the crowd to find Marco, Raymond looks at the vent where Marco is hiding and nods as a signal to kill him and his mother. Raymond dances with his mother and steers them into the marked position, where Marco kills them both with a single rifle shot. Marco prepares to kill himself, but after seeing Raymond's nod, Rosie arrives and prevents his suicide by wounding him.

The FBI frames a deceased Manchurian Global contractor as the shooter. Manchurian executives watch their entire conspiracy revealed on television, but do not attempt to flee. Rosie takes Marco to the remote island compound where he was conditioned. After reflecting on his time there, Marco drops a photo of his Army unit and Raymond's Medal of Honor into the sea.

