In the Solana Galaxy, Chairman Drek and his people, the Blarg, are systemically dismantling multiple planets to extract desirable material for the construction of an artificial planet, New Quartu. The Blarg need this new world as their home, Quartu, has been rendered uninhabitable by pollution. The destruction attracts the attention of the peacekeeping Galactic Rangers. At a factory that produces Drek's warbots on Quartu, a defective robot is produced due to a black-out, and flies to Kerwan to inform the Rangers of Drek's plan. After getting shot down, he encounters a young lombax spaceship mechanic named Ratchet on the planet Veldin. Ratchet names him Clank, and the two fly to Kerwan, where they save the Rangers from Drek's army of warbots. Their actions gain both Ratchet and Clank immense popularity, which pressures the commander of the Rangers, Captain Qwark, to name them honorary Rangers.

Qwark, jealous of Ratchet and Clank's acclaim, is approached by Drek to help him, an offer he accepts so long as Drek never harms the other Rangers. Drek has him disable the Rangers' weapons during an assault on his planet-destroying superweapon, the Deplanetizer. Drek's lieutenant, Victor Von Ion, boards the Rangers' flagship and attacks Clank, who manages to reduce him to a rusty wreck using a rainstorm-producing weapon. After Drek breaks apart the planet Novalis, his chief scientist, Doctor Nefarious (who orchestrated Qwark's betrayal), suddenly fires a sheep transforming gun at Drek, stuffs him in an escape pod and ejects him to New Quartu. He takes control of the Deplanetizer, intending to destroy the entire Solana Galaxy in revenge for Qwark's mistreatment of him when he was a Ranger. His plan is to destroy the planet Umbris, which has a highly unstable core that would annihilate all other planets in its vicinity.

The Rangers attack the Deplanetizer again, but Qwark intercepts and battles Ratchet and Clank. Ratchet pleads with Qwark to stop, causing Qwark to realize he has been used, and the three confront Nefarious. Nefarious fires the laser, but the Rangers move it off target from Umbris and towards New Quartu, killing Drek who has just crash-landed. Nefarious tries to disintegrate Qwark with his personal weapon, the RYNO (stands for "Rip You a New One"), but is stopped short by Ratchet, causing Nefarious himself to be seemingly disintegrated as he falls into the Deplanetizer's laser chamber. Ratchet, Clank, and Qwark manage to escape through a teleporter as the Deplanetizer falls towards Umbris, where it vaporizes in the atmosphere. With Nefarious thwarted, the Rangers return to Kerwan and Qwark is demoted to Private and ordered to apologize to the whole galaxy. Ratchet and Clank reunite on Veldin, with Ratchet promising to rejoin the Rangers if he is needed.

In a mid-credits scene, Nefarious is shown to be still be alive on Umbris, having his body forcibly converted into a robotic form to survive.

