In the town of Ogden Marsh, Iowa, sheriff David Dutton is enjoying a baseball game when it is interrupted by resident Rory entering the outfield with a shotgun. David attempts to dissuade him, but is forced to kill him when he raises his weapon. David's wife Judy, the community doctor, has begun to notice another resident, Bill, exhibiting bizarre behavior, including lifeless and repetitive speech. The next night, Bill locks his wife and son inside their farmhouse and burns it down.

Following the discovery of a pilot's body in a swamp, David and his deputy, Russell, investigate the area. They discover a military aircraft that crashed into the river a few days before. Suspecting a link between the contaminated water and the residents' bizarre behavior, David lobbies Mayor Hobbs to shut off the town's drinking water supply. He is denied, but does so anyway.

Soon after, all communication services are lost in town and soldiers arrive to quarantine all residents at a high school. The residents are examined for symptoms of infection, and Judy does not pass the examination due to elevated temperature because of her pregnancy and is separated from David. David escapes quarantine and returns to his office, encountering Russell. The pair head for the school to free Judy. At the school, infected townspeople breach the perimeter, and the military personnel evacuate, abandoning the civilians. Judy wakes up strapped to a gurney alongside several others, and infected school director Ben Sandborn enters and begins killing quarantined people with a pitchfork. David and Russell arrive and kill Ben, freeing her and Becca, Judy's assistant.

Unable to find a working vehicle, the four make their way out of town on foot. They encounter Becca's boyfriend Scotty at his farm. Soldiers raid the farm, shoot Scotty and his mother, and burn their bodies. David subdues a soldier and learns that the military has been ordered to shoot all civilians. The group repairs a patrol car in David's garage and are ambushed in David's house by Rory's infected wife Peggy and son Curt. Peggy stabs David in the hand before he kills her, and Russell shoots Curt through a window. Russell shoots the pair's corpses multiple times, disturbing Judy.

David, Judy, Becca, and Russell flee in a car. On the road, they are spotted by an attack helicopter and drive into a car wash for cover. Employees at the car wash attack the car and drag Becca out by the neck with a hose, breaking her neck and killing her. When the rest of the group leaves the car to help her, the helicopter destroys the car.

While walking down the road, the group spots a black SUV speeding toward them, which Russell disables with a police spike strip. The driver, a government employee, reveals that the cargo plane contained a Rhabdoviridae prototype and biological weapon called Trixie. It was en route to Texas to be destroyed when the plane crashed. Enraged, Russell shoots him and threatens the Duttons. David confronts him about his behavior, and Russell realizes he is infected. Russell begs to continue with them. At a military roadblock, Russell distracts the soldiers and is killed, allowing the Duttons to sneak past.

David and Judy arrive at a truck stop to search for a vehicle, discovering that the military has also executed those who were evacuated. After killing more infected, they escape in a semi-truck. As they drive away, a massive explosion destroys Ogden Marsh and disables their truck, forcing them to continue on foot. A view from a military satellite highlights the couple and then the city, and the words "Initiate containment protocol" appear.

A Cedar Rapids newscaster reports on the explosion in Ogden Marsh, stating a perimeter has been set and civilians are not being allowed into the area. An infected person appears on camera before the signal is lost.

