James "Jimmy" Monroe and Paul Hodges are veteran NYPD street detectives. After failing to stop a holdup at a cell phone store, allowing the suspect to get away, and putting civilians in danger by engaging in a reckless shootout, both Jimmy and Paul are suspended without pay pending a full investigation of their conduct.

Jimmy's daughter Ava is getting married, and Jimmy realizes he does not have the $50,000 the event will cost. His ex-wife Pam's arrogant second husband, Roy, offers to pay for the wedding, but Jimmy refuses and decides to sell his most prized possession, a one-of-a-kind 1952 baseball card, to come up with the money. The pawnshop is robbed by career criminal Dave, who takes the card. Finding out Dave is planning to rob a house that night, they stake it out to retrieve the card. Jimmy and Paul arrest Dave but find out that he already sold the card to drug dealer Poh Boy, who is obsessed with rare baseball memorabilia. 

Jimmy and Paul go to see Poh Boy and cut a deal, agreeing to retrieve a stolen car on the dealer's behalf. They discover a woman named Gabriela in the trunk. Gabriela explains that she is the mistress of Poh Boy's top rival, who was murdered by his gang and tied up as a present for their boss. Jimmy previews the tape from a hidden camera Paul had installed in his home and sees what looks to be Paul's wife Debbie with another man. He tells Paul that there is not anything on the tape, but Paul watches it himself anyway and is heartbroken. Gabriela runs off and is subsequently captured and brought to Poh Boy.

Jimmy bails out Dave and forces him to get the card back, but he accidentally falls out of a tree and hits his head, rending him comatose. Jimmy then breaks into Poh Boy's hideout only to be surrounded by the gang. At the same time, Paul learns that Debbie tricked him by faking an affair after finding his camera. After killing most of the gang in another shootout, Jimmy and Paul find Poh Boy holding Gabriela at gunpoint. They shoot him dead, but Paul's bullet goes through Jimmy's baseball card in Poh Boy's shirt pocket. Impressed with the duo's initiative and inadvertently assisting two colleagues caught up in the shootout, the precinct chief restores Jimmy and Paul to active duty, awarding them both commendations.

Crestfallen at the destruction of his prize card, Jimmy is left with no choice but to let Roy pay for the wedding. His humiliation is only furthered when Pam insists that both her husband and her ex give Ava away. Jimmy says nothing about it, but Paul discreetly aims a gun at Roy and forces him to sit down when the priest asks for Ava to be given away, letting his partner and friend have the moment to himself.

In a post-credits scene, a morgue worker rolls a gurney holding a body bag into the room as the phone rings. She hears grunts from the bag, and opens it revealing a still-alive Dave, who jokingly scares her.

