Returning home to Boston from buying car parts in Wichita, June Havens (Cameron Diaz) collides with Roy Miller (Tom Cruise) at the airport, twice, and is bumped to a later flight. CIA Agent John Fitzgerald (Peter Sarsgaard), believing she works with Roy, puts her back on the plane. While she is in the plane restroom, Roy subdues the passengers and flight crew, agents sent by Fitzgerald, and crash-lands the plane in a cornfield. Drugging the shocked June, he warns that agents will come after her.

Waking at home, June prepares for her sister April's (Maggie Grace) wedding, and learns she wants to sell their father's 1966 Pontiac GTO tri-power, which June had planned to restore as a wedding gift. She is picked up by Fitzgerald and his agents. Roy appears, kills numerous agents in a highway chase and rescues her. She flees to her ex-boyfriend Rodney (Marc Blucas), a firefighter, before Roy arrives and pretends to take June hostage, shooting Rodney in the process.

Roy convinces June she is safer with him, and reveals that he has the Zephyr, a perpetual energy battery; he had been assigned to guard its inventor, Simon Feck (Paul Dano), until Fitzgerald tried to steal the battery, framing Roy. In Brooklyn, June and Roy discover Feck has gone into hiding but left Roy a clue that he is in the Alps. They are attacked by henchmen sent by Spanish arms dealer Antonio Quintana (Jordi Mollà). 

Drugged again, June drifts in and out of consciousness as they are captured and then escape to Roy's off-the-grid island. Accepting a call from her sister, June accidentally leads Quintana's men to the hideaway. Escaping Quintana's unmanned aerial assault vehicle in a helicopter, Roy knocks June out to circumvent her fear of flying in the tiny helicopter.

June wakes up aboard a train in Austria, where Roy has reunited with Simon, and they manage to kill Bernhard (Falk Hentschel), an assassin hired by Quintana. After checking into a hotel in Salzburg, June follows Roy to a meeting with Naomi, Quintana's henchwoman, where he offers to sell the Zephyr.

Fitzgerald and CIA Director Isabel George (Viola Davis) find June and reveal Roy used her at the airport to smuggle the Zephyr past security. Heartbroken, June leads them to the hotel. Fleeing across the rooftops, Roy is shot and falls into the river with the Zephyr. Simon is kidnapped from CIA custody by Fitzgerald, the real traitor, to be delivered to Quintana in Spain.

Returning home, June attends her sister's wedding, and visits an address Roy had been monitoring, where she meets his parents and learns his real name is Matthew Knight. They believe their son, an Army sergeant and Eagle Scout, was killed in action, and have won various lotteries and sweepstakes they do not remember entering. Leaving a message on her own answering machine declaring she has the Zephyr, June is taken by Quintana's men to Seville.

Drugged with a prototype truth serum, June explains that Roy's deal with Quintana was meant to alert the CIA so June would be returned home safely in time for the wedding. Roy tracks Fitzgerald, rescues June, and leads Quintana and his men on a car chase. Quintana is killed by a bull stampede, and Roy trades Fitzgerald the Zephyr for Simon. Fitzgerald shoots at Simon anyway, but Roy takes the bullet. Right after Simon reveals that the battery is unstable it explodes, killing Fitzgerald.

Roy is hospitalized in Washington, D.C., where George tells him June has moved on, and welcomes him back to the CIA; however, George's coded language reveals that he will be killed. June, disguised as a nurse, drugs Roy and breaks him out of the hospital. Waking up in the rebuilt GTO, Roy and June drive toward Cape Horn, and his parents unexpectedly receive their own tickets there.

