Former CIA black ops agent Frank Moses (Bruce Willis) lives a quiet life in the suburbs and creates opportunities to talk to pension call center employee Sarah Ross (Mary-Louise Parker). An assassination squad attempts to kill Frank, but he single-handedly kills the entire squad and drives to Sarah's house to protect her. Sarah refuses to leave with Frank so he kidnaps her. CIA agent William Cooper (Karl Urban) is tasked by his supervisor Cynthia Wilkes (Rebecca Pidgeon) to kill Frank.

Frank ties up Sarah in a Louisiana motel room while he visits his former mentor Joe (Morgan Freeman) at a retirement home for help identifying the squad. He learns the same squad murdered a newspaper reporter in New York. Sarah gets loose and calls 9-1-1, accidentally alerting Cooper to her location. Frank saves her. Cooper chases them in a car but they escape to New York City to investigate the reporter who was killed. They find a list of names the reporter was investigating, almost all of whom have recently died. Frank calls Joe but is told Joe has been killed.

Frank and Sarah find retired agent Marvin Boggs (John Malkovich) in Florida, whose name is on the list. Marvin finds all the names on the list are connected to a secret 1981 mission in Guatemala. The three track down pilot Gabriel Singer (James Remar) who flew the mission. He helps Frank and Marvin remember the mission but is killed by a sniper in a helicopter. Frank, Marvin, and Sarah escape. Frank secures the help of retired FSB agent Ivan Simanov (Brian Cox) in exchange for a favor, and with Sarah infiltrates the Secure Records Vault at the CIA to obtain the Guatemala file. The records keeper (Ernest Borgnine) tells Frank that Cooper pulled his file, so Frank pays Cooper a surprise visit in his office. Frank dislocates Cooper's shoulder and Cooper shoots and wounds Frank. Frank and Sarah find Marvin being held at gunpoint by Joe, who survived the attack at the retirement home. The group seeks help from retired British assassin Victoria Winslow (Helen Mirren), who stitches Frank's wound and joins the group as they decide to meet with Alexander Dunning (Richard Dreyfuss), an arms dealer who is the only name left on the list still alive besides Frank and Marvin.

Joe meets with Dunning posing as an African warlord wanting to purchase weapons. Dunning reveals the killings were ordered by the Vice President of the US, Robert Stanton, to cover up Stanton's mass killing of innocent villagers in Guatemala. Meanwhile, Cooper receives a tip leading him to Dunning's mansion where he confronts Frank. Joe sacrifices his life to help Frank and Marvin escape, but Sarah is captured by Cooper. Frank breaks into Cooper's house while his family is there and calls Cooper, saying he intends to kill Stanton and if Sarah is harmed, he will kill Cooper's family.

Finding the Guatemala file Frank left for him, Cooper realizes that he's being used in the coverup and has himself assigned to Stanton's security detail. The group kidnap Stanton from a fundraising dinner but Victoria is shot and is rescued by Ivan. Frank calls Cooper and arranges to trade Stanton for Sarah. Cooper and Wilkes bring Sarah and meet with Frank. Dunning arrives at the meeting point too and injures Stanton, revealing himself and Wilkes to be behind the assassinations and offers to make Cooper CIA Director if Cooper kills Frank and Sarah. Disgusted with Wilkes' corruption, Cooper pretends to arrest Frank but instead kills Wilkes. Marvin and Victoria kill Dunning's bodyguards, and Frank punches Dunning in the throat, incapacitating him. Cooper lets Frank's team go as Marvin shoots and kills Dunning. Frank and Sarah reunite, and Cooper tells them all to leave and that he will clean up the situation.

The group leaves in Ivan's car and Ivan cashes in his favor from Frank. Sarah insists she go along with Frank and Marvin to deal with an issue in Moldova. Frank and Marvin are then shown fleeing Moldovan troops with a stolen nuclear device.

