In the late 2010s, 8 megacorporations divide up the world around them; the biggest being Tekken Corporation, which controls North America. In order to placate the masses, the corporation's Chairman, Heihachi Mishima, sponsors the King of Iron Fist Tournament, or ''Iron Fist'' - in which fighters from the 8 corporations battle until one is left standing and receives a lifetime of stardom and wealth. In a slum area surrounding Tekken City called the Anvil, lives the rebellious young man Jin Kazama, who makes money as a contraband runner for resistance groups that fight against the Tekken Corporation. Jin has been raised and trained by his mother, Jun, who never speaks of Jin's father, claiming he is dead. One night, Jin is targeted by the Jackhammers, the elite specs group that patrols the Anvil and ensures the safety of Tekken City. Jun is killed by the Jackhammers instead and Jin swears revenge against Heihachi. In the ruins of his former home, he finds a ''Tekken'' Fighter I.D. belonging to Jun, revealing she was once an Iron Fist fighter. After defeating the disgraced Marshall Law, Jin goes to Tekken City, sponsored by former boxer Steve Fox.

Upon entering Tekken City, Jin befriends mixed martial artist Christie Monteiro. He wins the match against Miguel Caballero Rojo, nearly killing him in a fit of rage. Heihachi's son, Kazuya Mishima, is impressed and offers Jin a place in Tekken Corporation, but Jin refuses. Later that night, Jin is attacked by Nina Williams, at Kazuya's request. Jin survives the assassination attempt, thanks to Christie's interference. Jin vows to win Iron Fist and to kill both Heihachi and Kazuya. When he gives Fox Jun's ID, he realizes he is her son, telling him that he knew her. During the quarterfinals, Christie defeats Nina.

Kazuya then has Heihachi imprisoned, effectively seizing control of Tekken. Jin narrowly defeats the elite swordsman Yoshimitsu. Kazuya says rules have changed, and so they must now fight to the death. Jin, Christie, and Steve try to escape, along with Raven, leaving Nina and Anna Williams, and Sergei Dragunov behind. Kazuya brings down some guards, causing a firefight. Steve, Christie, and Raven cover Jin but he walks across Heihachi's cell. Angry, Jin tries to taunt Heihachi, saying he is responsible for killing Jin's mother. However, since Heihachi is their only mean of escaping Tekken, Steve frees Heihachi and joins the group. In the gunfight, Raven is wounded and recaptured.

In the warehouse that Jin uses as protection, Heihachi reveals to Jin that Kazuya raped his mother, making him Jin's father, and left her for dead. Heihachi took her out of Tekken City to the Anvil to keep her alive. Heihachi states the corporation's true purpose is to restore order to the world. Later on, the group is located by Jackhammers, who kill Steve Fox in a firefight and recapture the rest of the escapees. Before taking them back to Iron Fist, Kazuya orders the Jackhammers to execute Heihachi. Back in Tekken City, Kazuya changes the rules of the tournament and now wants the fighters to fight to the death. In the Finals, Jin is forced to fight against Bryan Fury, who had already defeated Sergei Dragunov, while Kazuya holds Christie in the control room. At first, he is outmatched, but remembering his mother's teachings, Jin defeats Bryan. Angered about Jin's victory, Kazuya enters the tournament himself armed with two moon axes. The weaponless Jin is saved by Christie, and pins Kazuya, who baits Jin by claiming that he remembers how Jun "put up quite a fight". Jin defeats Kazuya but refuses to kill his father.

Jin walks out of Tekken City's gate and is saluted by the Jackhammers, symbolizing his new role as CEO of Tekken Corporation. In a post-credits scene, it is revealed that Heihachi managed to regain control of the Jackhammers.

