Allen Gamble and Terry Hoitz are both officers of the New York City Police Department (NYPD). Allen is a mild-mannered forensic accountant while Terry is a hot-tempered detective who has been partnered with Allen ever since he mistakenly shot Derek Jeter during the World Series, earning him the nickname "Yankee Clipper". They receive no respect from the other officers, particularly fellow detectives Martin and Fosse. Everyone in their precinct except for Terry idolizes cocky detectives Chris Danson and P. K. Highsmith, who are considered New York City's best policemen even though they frequently cause major collateral damage catching petty criminals. During a pursuit, they leap to their deaths after attempting to "aim for the bushes".

Allen and Terry investigate a scaffolding permit violation by British multi-billionaire Sir David Ershon but wind up uncovering a much bigger plot by Ershon to cover the losses incurred by his client, Lendl Global. Lendl CEO Pamela Boardman has hired a team of mercenaries led by Roger Wesley to make sure Ershon pays her back.

Terry and Allen go to Allen's house to talk through the case and have dinner with Allen's wife Sheila. When they visit Allen's ex-girlfriend, Christinith, to gain their police evidence, she and her husband want him to have sex with her. Meanwhile, Terry unsuccessfully attempts to reconnect with his ex-fiancée Francine, who had walked out on him due to his anger issues.

During their investigation, Allen and Terry are wounded due to an unsuccessful attempt at scaring them off via the bombing of an accounting office when they come in to investigate it. Allen confides in Terry about how he ran a prostitution ring in college, though he insists that he was never a pimp. He stopped because he was deep into his dark alternative personality, "Gator", and wound up in the hospital, where he met Sheila. When Sheila tells Allen she is pregnant, he reverts to his dark personality, which causes her to kick him out.

Their investigation comes to a halt when Ershon's attorney, Don Beaman, learns of Ershon's plan to cover his losses, leading Wesley to kill him and make it look like suicide. Angered at their lack of progress, Captain Gene Mauch splits up the partners, sending Terry to traffic duty and Allen to beat patrol.

Despite Terry's anger, Allen still works the case on his own. After he learns that Danson and Highsmith died investigating a staged theft during which Wesley broke into an accounting firm next door, he finds credible evidence and earns his gun back from Mauch. Allen then convinces Terry to rejoin him. They meet Mauch at Bed Bath & Beyond, his second job, where he admits he has been holding off on the case because Ershon has high-profile connections that could ruin him, so he allows them to finish the case off-the-books.

They go to an investment meeting Ershon is having and realize that the $32 billion Ershon seeks is really coming from the NYPD pension fund. They escape with Ershon to his private apartment, and he tells them that the money from the pension fund is already in his account, ready to be transferred. Later that night, Allen and Terry finally reconcile with their loved ones. Allen apologizes to Sheila using her mother as an intermediary and she welcomes him back in. Terry also apologizes to Francine for letting his anger rule his life.

The next morning, they drive to the bank to stop the transfer, evading Wesley's team, groups of Chechen and Nigerian "investors" to whom Ershon owes money, and police officers who are told Allen and Terry have gone rogue. Reaching the bank, they halt the transfer. Wesley arrives and, as a delaying tactic, shoots both officers and Ershon in their arms. Mauch finally arrives with backup, rescuing them and arresting Ershon for embezzlement, and Wesley for multiple counts of murder. Ershon's arrest led to a stock market crash and the subsequent federal bailout of Lendl Global. Terry marries Francine, and Allen reunites with his wife.

