Successful reality television executive producer Joanna Eberhart's career suddenly ends after a disillusioned reality show participant named Hank tries to kill her. After Joanna suffers a mental breakdown upon the loss of her job, she, her husband Walter Kresby, and their two children move from Manhattan to Stepford, a quiet Fairfield County, Connecticut suburb. Upon the family's arrival, Joanna befriends writer and recovering alcoholic Roberta "Bobbie" Markowitz and Roger Bannister, a flamboyant gay architect who has moved to town with his long-time partner Jerry.

After the trio witness Sarah Sunderson violently dance and then collapse, Joanna argues with Walter about the incident until Walter bluntly informs her that her children barely know her, their marriage is falling apart, and her domineering nature makes people want to kill her. As he tries to walk out of their marriage, Joanna apologizes and agrees to appease him by trying to fit in with the other wives. The next day, Joanna, Bobbie and Roger go to Sarah's home to check up on her, where upon entering, they hear her upstairs, ecstatically screaming during sex with her husband Herb. As they scramble to sneak out, they find a remote control labeled SARAH, which makes her breasts enlarge and make her walk backward robotically as they unwittingly fiddle with it.

One evening, Walter and Bobbie's husband Dave go to the Men's Association with Roger and Jerry, but Joanna and Bobbie hire a babysitter and sneak inside to spy on them and the other husbands. They discover a hall filled with family portraits, but Roger catches them and assures them that all is well. The next day, the pair discover Roger's flamboyant clothing, Playbill program from ''Hairspray'', and photo of Orlando Bloom have all been discarded. Jerry tells them to meet him in the town hall and they see Roger, apparently running for Connecticut State Senate, with a bland look and conformist personality. Joanna wants to leave and Walter agrees, saying they will go the next day. Going into Walter's study, she discovers that all the Stepford wives were once working women in high-power positions, just like herself.

The next day, Joanna visits Bobbie, noticing that her formerly messy house is spotless. Now blending in with the other Stepford wives, Bobbie says she is a whole new person and the most important thing is her cookbook. While offering to help Joanna change, Bobbie obliviously puts her hand over the stove's burner. Joanna flees Bobbie's house to look for Walter at the Men's Association, where all the neighborhood's husbands imposingly surround her. Walter laments to Joanna that he always felt emasculated by her, and the Men's Association leader Mike Wellington explains that they insert nanochips into their wives' brains to make them into Stepford wives. Joanna asks if the new wives really mean it when they tell their husbands that they love them, to which Mike only replies "enjoy" and ushers a reluctant Walter and Joanna into the transformation chamber. The next scene shows all of the Stepford spouses, including Joanna, Bobbie and Roger, now dazedly shopping at the grocery store dressed in classy Sunday attire.

With Joanna and Walter as special guests, Stepford hosts a formal ball. During the festivities, Joanna distracts Mike and entices him into the garden, while Walter slips away to the transformation room where he destroys the software that programs the women. At the ball, the wives corner their husbands and reveal that Joanna never received the microchip implant. When Mike nearly assaults Walter, Joanna decapitates him with a candlestick, exposing him as a fully animatronic robot. Mike's wife Claire explains that she created Stepford because she, too, was a bitter career-minded woman. When she discovered Mike's affair with her research assistant, she murdered them in a jealous rage. Claire then electrocutes herself to death by kissing Mike's severed robotic head.

Six months later, in an interview with Larry King, Joanna (who has won six Emmys for producing the hard-hitting documentary ''Stepford: The Secret of the Suburbs''), Roger (who has won his State Senate seat as an Independent) and Bobbie (who has written and published her first book of poetry ''Wait Until He's Asleep, Then Cut It Off'') explain that the Stepford husbands are under house arrest for their crimes and being retrained to become better people. The closing scene shows the husbands shopping for groceries, under the strict oversight of their wives.

