A plane crashes in a remote jungle. Many survive, but the front end of the plane and the cockpit are nowhere to be found. The only way to seek help is to find the cockpit and radio a message.

Ed Malone (Jeff Denton) climbs a small hill and sees the cockpit about a mile distant. A group decides to leave the plane to search for the radio. John Roxton (Rhett Giles) leads the group through the jungle. The remaining survivors stay at the crash site in case a plane passes by.

The group arrives at the fuselage to learn that it's not part of the plane they crashed in. In addition, the radio and critical instruments have been stripped and removed. They are startled by the arrival of Lieutenant Colonel Challenger (Bruce Boxleitner), who managed to travel alone to the downed plane,  carrying a briefcase he doesn't seem to want to part with.

The group continues to look for the cockpit with some individuals being killed or lost along the way. They encounter a military plane. Challenger tries to rig a missile as a signal gun, but fails. The group finds a cavern for shelter that night, and are attacked by giant prehistoric scorpions (''Brontoscorpio''). John and Tianka are killed, while a desperate Ed, Challenger, Rita, Dana, and Natalie flee for safety. As they escape from the stream, they are captured by natives living on a plateau. It is learned that the natives have been stripping the planes to avoid outsiders. The natives are discovered to be survivors from a crash long ago, and have developed a  sacrificial rite to appease the creatures of the jungle. Dana and Natalie are brainwashed into joining them, while Ed is chosen as the sacrifice.

However, the sacrificial ceremony fails when a giant ape (''Gigantopithecus'') attacks a swarm of flying dragon-like lizards, and Dana (who faked being brainwashed) saves Ed. They meet up with Challenger and Rita, then spot military jets overhead, moving in to attack the giant ape, but are destroyed. Challenger kills a native, but dies during the ape's rampage, leaving Ed to fight it alone.

Ed detonates a nuclear bomb from a crashed plane and successfully kills the ape, but also destroys their cockpit, trapping  Ed, Rita, and Dana in the jungle. They contemplate dying, to which Ed tersely replies, ''"Not today,"'' as they stare in the distance.

