Avinash "Tiger" Singh Rathore, a RAW officer, is forced to kill Rabinder, one of his men, for defecting to Pakistan's spy agency ISI while in Iraq. Disappointed that his missions always feature violence, Tiger's boss, Shenoy, deploys him on a mission in Dublin to observe Anwar Kidwai, an Indian scientist who teaches at Trinity College and is suspected of developing novel anti-missile technology. Tiger's handler, Gopi, accompanies him to Dublin.

Tiger poses as Manish Chandra, a non-fiction author writing a book on Kidwai and other Indian academics. To access to his house, Tiger befriends Kidwai's caretaker, Zoya, a British-Indian Trinity College dance student. Over time, they fall in love and she invites him to "My Son, Pinocchio", a college play sponsored by Kidwai which she choreographed. A few days later, Tiger is attacked by a mystery assailant, with him and Gopi fearing their identities have been compromised. After seeing the assailant on the day of the play, Tiger chases him through Dublin, which leads to Tiger publicly preventing a Luas train crash. During the play, Gopi calls Tiger to inform him of activity at Kidwai's house. There, Tiger discovers Zoya is an ISI agent tasked to steal Kidwai's research.

Zoya refuses to hand over the research to Tiger and return to India with him; he lets her go after combating an attack by Feroz, an ISI agent, who is revealed to be Tiger's mystery assailant. Back in India, Tiger asks to be removed from field duty, and completes analysis work with his colleague, Bagga, who shows him an intercepted Pakistani secret message. Tiger deduces the message was planted by Zoya, informing him of her planned arrival at an upcoming UN meeting in Istanbul. Tiger and Zoya meet and decide to elope; after misleading their respective agencies to Nur-Sultan, Tiger and Zoya travel to Havana.

Tiger and Zoya are tracked down when they foil a mugging attempt, with video surveillance reaching RAW and ISI. After being spotted at an amateur boxing match, the couple attempt to flee Havana, but Zoya is arrested by Cuban police and handed over to the ISI. Tiger then meets Gopi, and tells him Zoya will co-operate with RAW in exchange for her escape. Tiger and Gopi lead a team to intercept Zoya's prisoner transport convoy, but Tiger and Zoya escape in a light aircraft they had stationed in a nearby field; Tiger is also non-fatally shot by Gopi. Sometime later, Tiger calls Shenoy and informs him that he and Zoya will return home when Pakistan and India no longer need ISI and RAW. 

In the epilogue, several sightings of Tiger and Zoya are reported in Venice, Cape Town, Zurich, and London.

