Charlie Bronson is enrolled in Witness Protection, living in Milton, California, under the supervision of incompetent U.S. Marshal Randy Anderson. Charlie's girlfriend Annie Bean is a professor with a doctorate in Non-Violent Conflict Resolution. Her supervisor Debby Kreeger promises to fire her if she does not make it to a job interview at UCLA.

Charlie, unable to return to Los Angeles since enrolling in Witness Protection, insists Annie take the interview without him. Instead, Annie returns to work to beg to keep her job, but Charlie picks her up in his souped-up, restored Lincoln Continental to take her to the interview.

Annie's ex-boyfriend Gil Rathbinn, believing Charlie is in Witness Protection as a murderous criminal, urges her not to go; undeterred, she leaves with Charlie. Gil's brother Terry, a police officer, finds that Charlie's vehicle is registered to "Yul Clint Perrkins" — Charlie's real name. Gil discovers Charlie is a former getaway driver who testified in an unsuccessful case against his fellow bank robbers. Gil messages one of the defendants, Alexander Dmitri, on Facebook, that he knows Yul Perrkins' location.

Randy pursues Charlie to L.A. Charlie and Annie confront Gil, who is following them, and Charlie tries to resolve the situation non-violently at her insistence. Unmoved, Gil reveals that he knows Charlie's real name and has Alex Dmitri as a "Facebook friend". Charlie and Annie flee, running Randy off the road as he arrives. Alex sees Gil's message and gathers his fellow bank robbers Neve and Allen to find him.

While Annie and Charlie stop for gas, the Continental's engine is admired by a redneck named Sanders. He follows them to a motel, and they discover in the morning that the engine has been stolen. Ambushed by Gil, Charlie knocks him out and realizes he was accompanied by Alex's crew. He grabs the VIN of a Chevrolet Corvette in the parking lot and duplicates a keyless entry using the tools of his former trade; he and Annie flee in the Corvette, with Gil, Alex's crew, and Randy in hot pursuit. The pair argue over his past, and he reveals that he was a getaway driver for 13 bank robberies and was engaged to Neve.

After escaping their pursuers, Annie confronts Charlie for lying to her and proceeds without him. Gil agrees to take her the rest of the way, but they are run off the road by Alex, who takes her hostage and calls Charlie, telling him to meet at a nearby diner. There, he demands money in exchange for Annie; they argue about Charlie's betrayal, cut short when Alex reveals that he was raped in prison and blames Charlie. Charlie agrees to take Alex to his stash of money hidden at his estranged father Clint's home; en route, he calls Randy, now in the company of Terry (who is attracted to him) and his partner Angela (Carly Hatter) with his father's address. The three pick up Gil along the way.

At Clint's, Charlie and his father reconcile as they dig up his bag of money. His father mentions his Class 1 Off-Road racing vehicle, and attacks Alex’s crew as Charlie and Annie escape in the racer, just as Gil, Randy, Terry and Angela arrive. Randy manages to shoot Alex and arrests the thieves. Two other Marshals take Alex's crew into custody, complimenting Randy and Terry's work.

Charlie and Annie reconcile and arrive in time for her interview; He offers to spend the rest of his life with her, and she accepts. Some months later, Randy and Terry, now in a relationship, take the Marshals' exam.

A stinger segment reveals Annie's interview with Professor Sandy Osterman. She interrupts him hotboxing his office and is surprised he is not a woman as Debby had described. Osterman reveals Debby is his sister, and Annie sympathizes with him, earning his approval and an immediate job offer, which she accepts.

