In Pittsburgh, a man drives a van into a parking garage across the Allegheny River from PNC Park, dropping a quarter into the meter. Using a rifle, he shoots and kills five people on the river's North Shore Trail from long range before driving off. 

The Pittsburgh Police, headed by Detective Calvin Emerson, find a shell casing and the quarter used to pay for parking. A fingerprint on the coin belongs to James Barr, an ex-United States Army sniper. When the police raid his house, they find the van, the rifle, and Barr unconscious. During an interrogation by Emerson and District Attorney Alex Rodin, Barr is offered a choice between life in prison in exchange for a full confession or a guaranteed death sentence, as Rodin has never lost a case.

Barr instead  writes "Get Jack Reacher" on a notepad. Jack Reacher is a drifter and ex-US Army Military Police Corps investigator and major. He arrives in Pittsburgh after seeing a news broadcast about Barr. Emerson and Rodin deny Jack's request to view the evidence, but agree to let him see Barr, who was attacked by fellow inmates and is now in a coma. 

Jack meets Barr's defense attorney, Helen Rodin, Alex Rodin's daughter. She tells him he can see the evidence if he will be her investigator, but Jack retorts that he is not interested in clearing Barr. He reveals that Barr had gone on a killing spree during his tour of duty in Iraq, but was not prosecuted because, unbeknownst to Barr, his military contractor victims had just emerged from a weekend of assaulting numerous women, and the US Army just wanted the whole mess forgotten.

Jack vowed that if Barr tried anything like that again, he would take him down. He agrees to investigate if Helen visits the victims' families to learn about the people murdered that day. Jack goes to the crime scene and finds inconsistencies: a trained sniper would have shot from a van on the nearby Fort Duquesne Bridge. 

An apparently random bar fight makes Jack realize that someone is attempting to strong-arm him into dropping his investigation. After Helen reports her findings about the victims to Jack, he suggests that the owner of local construction company Oline Archer was the real target, while the other victims served as a cover-up. Jack is later framed for the murder of the young woman who was paid to instigate the brawl.

Jack eventually follows up a hunch to a shooting range in neighboring Ohio owned by ex-United States Marine Corps Gunnery Sergeant Martin Cash. The real perpetrators are working for a ruthless construction firm led by an ex-Soviet prisoner known only as ''Zek Chelovek'' ("prisoner human being"). 

The gang kidnaps Helen with the aid of Detective Emerson and holds her hostage at a quarry. Jack kills the henchmen and Emerson with Cash's help, before confronting the Zek. The Zek points out that Jack has killed all who could have testified against him and doubts that he will be convicted, while also stating that an American prison would be easy compared to his previous incarceration in Siberia.

Convinced, Jack shoots him in the head. When Barr awakens from his coma, he tells Helen that he has no memory of the crime, but believes that he must be guilty. Barr's mental reconstruction of how he would have committed the shootings matches Jack's theory. A remorseful Barr is willing to accept both responsibility and punishment. However, Helen is confident he will be cleared. Meanwhile, Jack, sitting on a bus, overhears a man verbally and physically abusing a young woman and gets up to confront him.

