In 2012, alien criminal Boris the Animal, the last Boglodite, escapes from a maximum-security prison on the Moon to take revenge on Agent K, who shot off his left arm and captured him in 1969. He confronts K and his partner Agent J, telling the former he is "already dead". K attempts to prevent J from pursuing Boris and refuses to give any exact details about the events of his arrest. Back at MiB Headquarters, J discovers K was responsible not only for capturing Boris but for deploying the "ArcNet", an interplanetary shield that prevented the Boglodites from invading Earth, leading to their extinction.

Boris travels back in time to July 16, 1969, to kill Agent K's younger self, altering history. With only J's memory somehow unaffected, no one else at the Agency understands his inquiries and knowledge regarding K until Agent O, the new Chief of MIB following Zed's death, eventually pieces together J's erratic actions as signs of a fracture in the space-time continuum. With K gone, the ArcNet was never deployed, and present-day Earth is defenseless from a Boglodite invasion.

Knowing from the Agency's records Boris will commit murder at Coney Island on July 15, 1969, J time travels to said date to kill young Boris. However, he is arrested by young K, who takes him to MiB Headquarters and prepares to neuralyze him, but decides at the last minute to investigate his claims that he traveled from the future to stop Boris. They follow clues, leading them to a bowling alley, and then The Factory, where undercover MiB agent Andy Warhol directs them to Griffin, the last Archanan who escaped to Earth after the Boglodites destroyed his planet.

Griffin, who can see all possible future timelines and outcomes, senses Boris' coming attack on The Factory, but tells J and K where to meet him so he can give them the ArcNet before he flees. They meet Griffin at Shea Stadium, after which he is captured by Boris. J and K pursue and rescue Griffin, acquiring the ArcNet. Young Boris escapes and old Boris arrives on the early morning of July 16 and they team up.

After K initially reacts badly to the news of what old Boris will do to him, he, J, and Griffin use jetpacks to fly to Cape Canaveral to attach the ArcNet onto the Apollo 11 rocket to deploy it in space, but end up getting arrested by the military. Griffin shows a skeptical colonel the future, revealing to him the importance of their mission, and he assists them in getting to the launch site.

As the agents climb up the rocket's launch tower, they are attacked by both Borises. J uses his time-travel device to evade old Boris' attacks and knock him off the launch tower. K shoots off young Boris' left arm, knocking him off of the tower while also restoring the timeline. K attaches the ArcNet to the rocket and it is deployed successfully when the rocket launches, with Old Boris incinerated by the rocket exhaust.

Young Boris attacks K on the beach leading to the launch site, but the colonel saves K by sacrificing himself. Boris tries to goad K into arresting him so history will repeat itself, but K refuses and kills him instead, breaking the cycle. The colonel's young son James arrives and when he inquires about his father, K neuralyzes him and tells him only that his father is a hero. Observing from afar, J realizes that ''he'' is James, and that his presence at the launch in the original timeline is the reason why the space-time fracture did not alter his memory.

With his mission complete, J returns to 2012, where he reconciles with K, who tells him the Boglodites have been extinct for forty years. J implies his new knowledge of the secret K has been hiding to protect him, and thanks K for watching over him all these years. The un-aged Griffin observes this, and breaking the fourth wall, says it is his new favorite moment in human history.

