Luke Wright is an ex-cop and cage fighter who unintentionally wins a fixed fight. Emile Docheski, who is the head of the Russian mafia, tells his son Vassily and his men to kill Wright's pregnant wife as punishment and then promise to kill anyone to whom he speaks regularly. Luke leaves his life behind, thus becoming a homeless tramp. Mei is young mathematical prodigy in China, who gets kidnapped by men working for Triad boss Han Jiao, who wishes to use Mei as a mental calculator to eliminate his criminal enterprise's traceable digital footprint. Han sends her to New York City, in the care of brutal gangster Quan Chang.

One year later, Han arrives from China, asking Mei to memorize a long number. On the way to retrieve a second one, their vehicle is ambushed by the Russian mafia. Mei is taken to Emile, who demands the number, but she refuses. Before they can further interrogate her, they are interrupted by police sent by the corrupt Captain Wolf, who works for Han. Mei escapes during the confusion and is chased by the Russians to a nearby subway station, where Luke contemplates suicide. Recognizing Chemyakin as one of the men who killed his wife and seeing Mei's distress, Luke boards the train and kills Chemyakin and the other Russians. Mei flees at the next stop, only to be stopped by two corrupt detectives working for Wolf.

Luke arrives and incapacitates them, thus convincing Mei of his good intentions before he also dispatches some Russians. Hiding in a hotel, Mei explains the number to Luke, who guesses that it is the code to a combination safe. However, Quan tracks Mei down through her cell phone and escapes with her during a diversion as Luke fights through Quan's men. Across town, Captain Wolf meets with Mayor Danny Tremello, who has learned that Luke is involved and cautions Wolf, explaining that Luke was not a regular cop, but a black ops hitman who was loaned by the government as a favor to Tremello by friends in the CIA shortly after 9/11, along with his former partner Alex Rosen. Luke and Alex assassinated several crime bosses as an effort to impose order and Luke quit after exposing Wolf's detective squad as dirty cops.

Luke is living a life of exile as atonement for the things he did for the government. Using Chemyakin's phone, Luke sets up Vassily and kidnaps him. Emile reluctantly accepts a deal for his son's life, explaining that Mei's number unlocks a heavily guarded safe in Chinatown with $30&nbsp;million, though he does not know the contents of a second safe. Needing a team to get to the safe, Luke recruits Wolf and his detectives. Together, they fight through numerous Triad gangsters to reach the safe. As Luke is about to open it, Wolf attempts to betray him, but Luke kills the remaining detectives and takes Wolf hostage. Using the money, Luke bribes Alex, who is now the mayor's aide and boyfriend, into rescuing Mei. Alex reveals the second safe belongs to the mayor, containing a disc with data on every crime syndicate in New York. Alex meets and kills Quan and his men as Mei watches.

Meanwhile, Luke assaults the mayor and retrieves a copy of the mayor's disc. Alex and Luke arrange a meeting, but Luke refuses to surrender the money and instead suggests that they settle it with a fight. Before they can begin, Mei shoots Alex, wounding him and Luke finishes him off. In the aftermath, Luke gives $50,000 to Wolf and instructs him to return Vassily to his father unharmed. He sends the remainder of the money to Han to buy Mei's freedom, threatening to ruin Han's operations should Han try to recover Mei. Han leaves New York City in disgust, as Luke hides multiple copies of the disc throughout the city. Luke and Mei make plans to leave the city and head west to Seattle where Mei can enroll in a school for gifted children. When Mei asks if they are finally safe, Luke responds that they will take it one day at a time.

