Six weeks after Jason Bourne's escape from Russia after his pursuit with Kirill,{{efn|As depicted in ''The Bourne Supremacy'' (2004)}} Operation Outcome agent Aaron Cross is assigned a training exercise in the Alaskan wilderness as punishment for going AWOL. He must traverse the rugged terrain to find a remote cabin while being stalked by wolves. The cabin is operated by Number Three, another Outcome agent there as punishment. Cross lies and tells Number Three that he has lost his program medication dog tags containing "chems" that Outcome agents must take to maintain their mental and physical enhancements.

Colonel Eric Byer is tasked with containing the fallout from Pam Landy's exposure of Operations Treadstone and Blackbriar.{{efn|As depicted in ''The Bourne Ultimatum'' (2007)}} He and his team find several videos of Treadstone and Outcome medical directors Albert Hirsch and Dan Hillcott being together posted online that could lead investigators to Operation Outcome. Byer orders Outcome to be completely shut down and all of the agents and participating doctors killed to protect other clandestine programs.

Byer deploys an armed drone to eliminate Cross and Number Three in Alaska. Number Three is killed when a missile from the drone destroys the cabin, but Cross survives. He shoots down the drone with a rifle and removes a subdermal tracking implant on his hip. He traps an aggressive wolf and forces it to swallow his tracker. Another drone targets the tracker and kills the wolf, tricking everyone into believing that Cross was killed. At Sterisyn Morlanta, the pharmaceutical company supporting Outcome, researcher Dr. Donald Foite seemingly snaps and methodically shoots down Hillcott and his colleagues working on Outcome. After being cornered by guards, Foite shoots himself, leaving Dr. Marta Shearing as the program's sole survivor.

Cross travels from Alaska to Chicago to recover a stashed car, money, and fake identification. Running low on chems and seeing news that his Outcome provider, Dr. Shearing, had survived the shooting, he drives across country to her home in Maryland. Meanwhile, Byer sends four D-Trac assassins disguised as federal agents to kill her and make it look like a suicide. Cross intervenes, kills the assassins, and burns down her house to cover their escape. Shearing tells Cross that the program previously used a virus to lock in his physical enhancements, eliminating his need for his physical chems. They plan to fly to the Philippines to obtain a live virus to lock in his mental enhancements since it was impossible to get more mental chems.

Cross and Shearing use false identities to fly to Manila, bluff their way into a pharmaceutical factory where Sterisyn Morlanta has a research lab, and infect Cross with the live virus. Meanwhile, Byer's team find CCTV footage of Shearing at JFK airport and determine her itinerary. Byer alerts the factory's security team, but Cross subdues the security guards, causes a panic on the factory floor, and they escape in the commotion. Cross becomes incapacitated from the virus so Shearing hides him in an apartment to recover. Byer dispatches LARX#3, a chemically brainwashed super soldier, to kill them. The next morning, Cross recovers but the local police discover their hideout and they escape on foot through the rooftops. The police and the LARX agent chase them by motorcycle through the streets of Manila. They lose the police and Shearing kills the LARX agent, but Cross is shot and loses consciousness. She bribes a nearby boatman to help them escape Manila. Byer and his team, who lost their trail, raid the empty apartment for clues, only to find a "No More" message written on the mirror, with Cross' medication dog tags hanging on the side.

Back in New York, Blackbriar supervisor Noah Vosen lies to the Senate, stating that Blackbriar was created solely to track down Bourne, and that Deputy Director Pamela Landy committed treason by aiding Bourne and releasing top secret Treadstone files to the press. Meanwhile, Cross recovers from his bullet wounds on the boat out of Manila, where he and Shearing use a chart to determine where they should travel, safe for the moment.

