John awakens from a coma to learn that his wife and daughter were brutally murdered in a home invasion. Questioned by FBI Agent Gorman, the still amnesiac John identifies the perpetrator as former Universal Soldier (UniSol) Luc Deveraux, now a wanted man. Gorman activates sleeper agent Magnus, one of the cloned Next Generation UniSols.{{efn|As depicted in ''Universal Soldier: Regeneration'' (2009).}} Magnus enters a brothel and slaughters both the female employees and most of the male patrons, who all display exceptional physical resistance but are no match for Magnus. His final adversary, a clone of UniSol Andrew Scott, overpowers Magnus and injects him with a serum that frees him from government control. Magnus is introduced to a separatist group led by Deveraux and Scott, who are taking in wayward UniSols to turn them against the U.S. government, with the ultimate goal of establishing a UniSol-led new order.

John receives a call from someone claiming to be his friend Isaac, asking to meet. At his house, he finds Isaac long dead and evidence of his involvement with the UniSol program. A matchbox leads John to a strip club, where he is recognized by a stripper named Sarah, whom he cannot remember. Magnus injects John with Scott's serum, whereupon John hallucinates about Deveraux but retains his will. John follows Sarah to her apartment, where they are attacked by Magnus again. Though in the confrontation John loses some phalanges, they escape. Sarah tells John she remembers him working as a truck driver, living in a riverside cabin, and that the two were romantically involved.

Calling his own memories into question, John meets with Agent Gorman. He learns Deveraux was often seen at the docks from where John used to take shipments. John goes to the docks, inspects the last unshipped cargo and meets with local manager Ron Castellano, who plays hidden camera footage that shows John brutally murdering Isaac.

As John and Sarah drive towards the cabin, they are once more intercepted by Magnus. In the ensuing fight, John realizes he possesses superior strength, resistance and fighting abilities, eventually killing Magnus by decapitating him with a metal bat. Later, he discovers his severed fingers have regrown. John and Sarah reach the cabin to find it inhabited by an exact duplicate of John, who claims to be the original; it is this John whom Sarah and Castellano recall, and who killed Isaac. The original John had been mind-controlled into hunting down Deveraux, but was turned and hired as a transporter and assassin for his organization, until he met Sarah and deserted Deveraux. He tries to kill Sarah but is shot dead by the other John, now suspecting himself to be another UniSol sleeper agent.

After sending Sarah away, John meets a rogue UniSol at the river and is taken to the separatists' underground headquarters. There, he is greeted by Dr. Su, a former scientist of the UniSol program, who reveals John had been synthetically created a few weeks earlier and as such his family is nothing more than an implanted memory. Dr. Su also says the missing shipment contains hardware that will enable Deveraux to create clones. John accepts Su's offer to surgically sever his emotional bond with the fake memories of his family, but the pain and attachment to those memories drive John insane. He kills every UniSol in his path, culminating with Andrew Scott in a one-on-one confrontation. John then reaches Deveraux himself; in the ensuing fight, Deveraux eventually gains the upper hand. Realizing the government will not stop sending John clones until he is dead, and seeing this John as a worthy successor, Deveraux allows John to kill him.

Later, John meets with Agent Gorman again. Gorman admits to his involvement with the UniSol program and that he had purposefully put an unaware John on Deveraux's trail. Gorman ascribes John's success to his familial attachment, as opposed to the patriotism implanted in his predecessors. John kills Gorman, before a clone of Gorman and three UniSols emerge from John's van. The clone leaves in Gorman's car, hinting that John has completed the cloning equipment and taken over the separatist group, now determined to infiltrate the government which he holds responsible for his pain.

