On Halloween, a babysitter is sent several threatening text messages, the last of which reads, "I'm not in the house... yet". Moments later, the sitter is grabbed by a man in a white mask, who duct tapes her to a chair, rips three of her fingernails out, and slits her throat. Elsewhere, Angela chats with her neighbor, Mr. Walker, whose daughter, April, was abducted seven years ago, and has recently been deemed deceased in absentia. Angela was a member of the same babysitters club as April, and when she was taken, every member of the club besides Angela blamed Bianca, who was with April when she disappeared. To try and cheer up the dour Bianca, Angela invites her to a party she is throwing, while out in the woods another girl is slain by the masked man. The killer then breaks into a house, where he murders a couple, mutilating the girl with a straight razor before slashing her throat.

Angela and her friend Lucky prepare for the party, as the killer butchers another girl and her co-worker in an office. Bianca, who had just argued with the victim, spots the murderer (whose disguise is similar to the one worn by the person she saw take April) leaving the building and tries to follow him, but he eludes her. The maniac continues his rampage as Angela and Lucky welcome their first guest, Arlene, and Bianca angrily blows off her ex-boyfriend, Tyler. Bianca visits Angela, but storms off when Arlene taunts her with a Ouija board, afterward deciding to check on the other babysitter club members with Tyler, due to her suspicion that the masked man could be the same one who kidnapped April.

After massacring a gathering of six people, the madman breaks into Angela's house, and chloroforms her, Lucky, and Arlene. Angela and Arlene awaken in the basement, where Lucky, who has been beaten and tied to a chair, informs them that their captor told her that he will free Angela and Arlene if they kill her with a hammer. As it is their only option, Lucky tells Arlene to sacrifice her, which the sobbing Arlene reluctantly does. Bianca has Tyler drop her off at Angela's house, where she is approached by Mr. Walker, who hints that he was the one who murdered April before he knocks Bianca unconscious with a head butt.

Mr. Walker proceeds to enter the basement, strangle Arlene, and unmask himself for Angela. Mr. Walker takes Angela upstairs, incapacitates her by cutting her ankles, and rants about how much he loves her; he murdered all of the others in order to free her from her old life, so that she could start a new one with him, asserting, "You will come to love me, in time". While Mr. Walker pours gasoline throughout the kitchen, Angela stabs him in the stomach, with Mr. Walker doing the same to her. Angela begins crawling away while Mr. Walker takes out a lighter, proclaiming, "The only thing more romantic than running away together, is dying together. Love is a bitch!" The disoriented Bianca enters, but is told to run by Angela, who reassures her by saying, "It's not your fault". The house erupts up in flames, and Bianca goes into hysterics as Tyler tries to console her, and emergency services approach.

