After apparently managing to kill Victor Crowley, Marybeth Dunston makes her way back into the city, bloodied and disorientated. She walks into the Jefferson Parish Police Department, where she is quickly put into custody due to her carrying Victor's scalp. Upon the discovery of the carnage at Honey Island Swamp, Marybeth is placed as the prime suspect for the murders by Sheriff Fowler, despite her swearing her innocence. Fowler heads out to the swamp with the paramedics and fire department, leaving Deputy Winslow in charge of the station until he gets back.

Amanda, Fowler's ex-wife, journalist and an expert about the legend of Victor Crowley, comes into the station to interview Marybeth. During the interview, Amanda tells Marybeth that Victor has been cursed to relive the same night over and over again, and that he will keep coming back unless he gets what he wants — his father, Thomas Crowley. She then tells Marybeth that she is the only one that can put an end to Victor, since her bloodline connects her to her father Sampson, who was involved in starting the house fire that killed Victor as a child.

At Honey Island Swamp, the body of Victor is bagged and put into a water ambulance. Suddenly, Victor reanimates and massacres most of the first response team, save for Fowler and a pair of paramedics, which include Andrew. Back at the station, upon hearing the carnage over the radio, Amanda convinces Deputy Winslow to let Marybeth out of jail and help her save those at the swamp.

Meanwhile, back at the swamp, a SWAT team led by Tyler Hawes takes over the operation from Fowler and is lead to the Crowley house alongside a handful of deputies. Victor, however, is quickly able to kill nearly the entire squad, save for SWAT Officer Dougherty, Andrew and Fowler, who manage to escape amidst the chaos. Meanwhile, Amanda, Winslow and Marybeth manage to obtain Thomas Crowley's ashes from Abbott MacMullen, Victor Crowley's racist long distant cousin.

Andrew, Fowler and Dougherty manage to outrun Victor and barricade themselves inside the water ambulance. Shortly after, however, Victor begins to saw his way through the boat wall with a belt sander. Meanwhile, Amanda, Winslow and Marybeth arrive at the Swamp outside the burned down Crowley house. Amanda calls out for Victor, telling him they have his father. Upon hearing Amanda's voice, Fowler expresses relief, only to be grabbed by Victor and killed with the belt sander. Victor also grabs Dougherty and pulls her through a sharp hole on the metallic door, which disembowels her, but Andrew manages to stay hidden and survive.

Victor goes back to his destroyed home and finds Amanda and Deputy Winslow there, but refrains from attacking when he sees the ashes. Marybeth offers Victor his father's ashes and apologizes for what her father did to him. When Victor approaches to take the ashes, however, Deputy Winslow mistakes it for an attack and shoots him down. Victor rises back up and kills Winslow and Amanda out of rage, before grabbing Marybeth and impaling her on a tree branch, severely wounding her. Before he can finish her off, however, Marybeth smashes the urn over Victor's head, covering him in his father's ashes and causing his body to melt. With her last bit of strength, Marybeth grabs one of the SWAT team's guns and blows his remains away before collapsing. The National Guard then arrives and Andrew, now free of danger, emerges from the boat and signals the helicopters. Just as the screen cuts to black, Marybeth gasps for air, leaving her fate unknown.

