A backwoods community worships a pit with healing powers. Dawai creates jugs of faces from clay, and when a jug portrays the face of a member of the community, that person must be sacrificed to the creature that lives in the pit. Ada, who has been having sex with her brother Jessaby, finds her own face on Dawai's latest jug. Scared, she hides the jug and keeps it a secret.

Ada is arranged to be "joined" to a boy from another family, Bodey. Later, Ada discovers she is pregnant. While she is with Bodey's sister, Eileen, Ada has a vision of Eileen's death, and the creature later kills Eileen. Worried that they have angered the creature, the community questions Dawai, who claims to be ignorant of whether there's a missing jug, as he creates them while under a trance. The townspeople become frustrated with Dawai and demand that he search for any potentially missing jugs. Ada meets with Dawai, and she suggests that he create a new one from memory. Ada's mother, Loriss, inspects her to see if she is a virgin, and Ada claims to have broken her own hymen. Loriss punishes Ada, who later informs Jessaby that she is pregnant.

The following day, the community gathers around the pit as Dawai presents his latest jug with the face of Bodey, who is sacrificed. Ada visits her sickly grandfather and sees a vision of an emaciated boy, who explains that her grandfather hid his wife's jug face the same as she did, and the community poisoned her grandfather as punishment. Jessaby tells Sustin, his father, that he is sick, so they go to the pit to heal him. Ada has a vision of Jessaby getting killed; the vision comes true. As it seems Dawai has failed again in interpreting the pit's desires, he is severely punished by the community and tied beside the pit to be taken. Ada breaks Dawai free, and they run off. However, the two are caught, taken back and punished by the community, who assume that it is Dawai with whom Ada had a relationship. Ada is whipped, miscarries her child, and then reveals to her parents that it was her brother's baby.

Ada has a vision of her father's death, and the creature kills him. She reveals to everyone that she was the missing jug face and that all the deaths are her fault. Her mother ties her up beside Dawai next to the pit. The Shunned Boy and Ada's grandfather appear and free her from her ropes, but she will not leave because she knows Dawai will be killed. The next morning, Ada's mother finds her free of her ropes but kneeling beside the Pit. Ada apologizes and is sacrificed. The film ends as Dawai lights a candle next to his jug face of Ada.

