Distraught after losing his fortune in the 2008 financial crisis, stockbroker Jeffrey Desange murders his colleagues and his estranged wife before taking his young daughters, 3-year-old Victoria and 1-year-old Lily, away. Driving dangerously fast on a snowy road, Jeffrey gets into a car crash, breaking Victoria's glasses. Surviving the collision, he takes the children to an abandoned cabin. Planning to kill his daughters and then himself, he prepares to shoot Victoria but is killed by a shadowy figure.

Five years later, a rescue party, sponsored by Jeffrey's identical twin brother Lucas, finds a now 8-year-old Victoria and 6-year-old Lily in the cabin, alive but in a feral state after years of isolation. The girls are put in a welfare clinic under Dr. Gerald Dreyfuss. They refer to "Mama," a mysterious maternal protector figure. The girls are initially hostile to Lucas but Victoria recognizes him after he gives her a pair of glasses and she can see properly. Victoria acclimates quickly to domestic life while Lily retains much of her feral behavior.

Lucas is attacked by a mysterious entity and put into a coma, leaving Annabel to care for the girls alone. She makes progress with Victoria but Lily remains hostile. Alarmed by nightmares of a strange woman and Victoria's warning about Mama, Annabel asks Dreyfuss to investigate. Dreyfuss’s research brings to light the story of Edith Brennan, a mentally ill asylum patient who died in the 1800s; he recovers a box from a government warehouse containing a baby's remains.

Annabel has a dream revealing Edith's past; when Edith was sent to the asylum, her child was given to nuns. She escaped and took her baby back, stabbing a nun. Fleeing her pursuers, she jumped off a cliff, but before hitting the water below, she and the child made impact with a large branch. Edith drowned, but the child's corpse snagged on the branch and did not fall with her. Annabel realizes that Edith hadn't realized her child was caught on the tree and doesn't understand why her baby wasn't in the water with her. Edith's troubled ghost, Mama, searched the woods for her child for years until she discovered Victoria and Lily and took them as surrogates.

Lucas regains consciousness after a vision of his dead twin tells him to save his daughters. Victoria's growing closeness to Annabel makes her less willing to play with Mama, unlike Lily. Dreyfuss visits the cabin and is killed by Mama, who then attacks Annabel and the girls. She also kills their maternal great-aunt Jean and uses her body to spirit the children away. Annabel and Lucas find the children on the same cliff where Mama leapt with her infant.

Annabel, who found Dreyfuss' box of the child's remains, offers them to Mama. Mama recognizes her lost baby and her appearance briefly turns human. However, Lily calls out for Mama, causing her to revert to her monstrous form and attempt to take the girls. Victoria asks to stay with Annabel instead of leaving with Mama. Mama accepts and she and Lily plummet off the cliff. Mama and Lily are briefly shown as spirits happy to be united before hitting the branch and turning into a shower of moths. Annabel and Lucas embrace Victoria, who notices a moth landing on her hand, suggesting that Lily is still with her in spirit.

