;''Stolen Goods''
Kwan, an odd-job worker who lives in a "coffin home", gets fired from his job as a restaurant assistant. Out of desperation to pay rent, he breaks into a columbarium at night and randomly steals funerary urns, leaving behind ransom notes for the relatives to contact and pay him to get back the urns. On one occasion, he successfully collects ransom from the cousin of one of his "victims", who turns out to be the ghost of the "victim" himself. The money he received also turns into hell banknotes. Shocked, Kwan tries to burn the hell banknotes but the fire gets out of control and he burns himself to death.

;''A Word in the Palm''
Ho, a fortune-teller who can see ghosts, is retiring from his trade to spend more time with his wife and son. His last clients are Cheung, a swimming coach, and Cheung's pregnant wife, who claims she is being haunted by a ghost. Ho teams up with his neighbour Lan, a crystal seller and fellow fortune-teller, to unravel the mystery. It turns out that Cheung had an affair with his student, Chan Siu-ting, and made her pregnant. After Cheung scorned her, Chan drowned herself at sea and became a vengeful ghost. Ho and Lan manage to convince Chan's ghost to give up her desire for revenge and find peace in the afterlife. Ho later learns that his son has inherited his ability to see ghosts.

;''Jing Zhe''
Chu is a "villain-hitter" who chants curses and hits paper effigies of people for a fee during the ''jing zhe'' period. Her customers come to her with the names, photographs, personal belongings, etc. of people they want to curse. She meets all sorts of customers, including a wealthy woman who has a grudge against her daughter-in-law and others, and a man with a similar-sounding name as the Hong Kong Chief Executive's. Her last customer, a young woman, says she wants three men and a woman cursed and she wants to do the hitting herself. Chu soon realises that she is the ghost of a woman raped and murdered by three men, of whom one is Chu's son. That day, Chu had witnessed her son and his two accomplices kidnapping the woman into a car but had turned a deaf ear to the woman's cries for help. The four of them meet their ends as the hitting intensifies.

