In 1968, renowned demonologists Ed and Lorraine Warren are investigating the Annabelle case, in which friends Debbie and Camilla say they have a possessed doll. They explain that after they contacted a medium, they allowed the spirit, who claimed to be a seven-year-old girl named Annabelle Higgins who died in the apartment, to possess the doll. Unable to get rid of the doll as the hauntings became more disturbing, Debbie and Camilla decided to desperately reach out to the Warrens. The Warrens then explain how the doll was never really possessed, and was a conduit for a demonic spirit that manipulated Debbie and Camilla so that it could eventually take over one of their bodies. 

Three years later in 1971, Roger and Carolyn Perron move into a farmhouse in Harrisville, Rhode Island, with their five daughters: Andrea, Nancy, Christine, Cindy, and April. Their dog, Sadie, refuses to enter the house. A minor mishap during a game of hide and seek results in the discovery of the boarded up entrance to an unknown cellar. Paranormal events occur within the first few nights. Every clock in the house stops at 3:07 a.m. Carolyn awakens with additional large bruises each morning. One day, Sadie is found dead in the yard. Carolyn and Christine both encounter a malevolent spirit.

Carolyn contacts the Warrens, who meet with her and agree to conduct an initial investigation, during which Lorraine, a clairvoyant, sees that dark forces have latched on to the Perron family. She explains that leaving the house will not free them. To gather evidence, they place cameras and bells around the house with the help of their assistant Drew Thomas and police officer Brad Hamilton. 

Further research reveals that the house once belonged to an accused witch named Bathsheba Sherman (a relative of Mary Towne Eastey), who sacrificed her week-old baby to the devil and killed herself in 1863 at 3:07 in the morning after proclaiming her love of Satan and cursing all who take her land. There are reports of numerous murders and suicides through the years in the houses that were built on the property.

One morning, Bathsheba appears to Carolyn and fully possesses her. That night, the group hears a spirit luring Cindy into the wardrobe, where she reveals a secret passage. Lorraine enters the passage and falls down to the cellar, where she sees the spirit of a woman whom Bathsheba had possessed long ago and used to kill her child. Bathsheba attacks Nancy; the incident is caught on camera. The Warrens conclude it is sufficient evidence to receive authorization from the Catholic Church to perform an exorcism, but Father Gordon explains that approval would have to come directly from the Vatican because the Perron family are not members of the Catholic Church.

The Warrens' daughter Judy is attacked in the Warren home by Bathsheba. The Perron family takes refuge at a motel, but Carolyn takes Christine and April back to the house to kill them. Ed, Lorraine, and Brad find Carolyn in the cellar trying to stab Christine. Lorraine warns that if they take Carolyn outside the house, Bathsheba will kill her. They tie Carolyn to a chair and Ed attempts the exorcism himself. Though Carolyn escapes and attempts to kill April, Lorraine is able to call to her by reminding her of a special memory she shared with her family, allowing Ed to complete the exorcism, lift Bathsheba's curse, and condemn her back to Hell. 

Returning to his home, Ed adds the haunted music box from the Perron home to their room of cursed artifacts that they have collected from past cases. As he leaves, the music box starts playing on its own.

