After his friends from the Hundred Acre Wood (Winnie the Pooh, Piglet, Eeyore, Tigger, Rabbit, Kanga, Roo, and Owl) throw him a farewell party before he departs for boarding school, Christopher Robin reassures Pooh that he will never forget him. Nevertheless, his rough experiences at school and his father's sudden death force his sudden maturation and he soon forgets the Hundred Acre Wood and his friends there. He later marries architect Evelyn, has a daughter named Madeline, and after serving in the British Army during World War II, works as Director of Efficiency at Winslow Luggages in London, but his demanding job causes him to neglect his family. With the company struggling, Christopher's superior, Giles Winslow Jr., tells him to decrease expenditures by 20%, largely by choosing which employees to lay off, and to present his plan on Monday. Consequently, Christopher misses joining his family at their countryside cottage in Sussex for a summer-ending weekend.

Upon awakening the next morning, unable to find his friends, Pooh decides to travel through the door through which Christopher Robin normally emerged. In London, he reunites with Christopher, who is shocked to see Pooh, but takes him back to his home. After a chaotic night and morning, Christopher escorts Pooh back to Sussex on the next train. After passing his cottage, the two enter the Hundred Acre Wood. Pooh's absent-mindedness and fear of Heffalumps and Woozles exasperate Christopher. Pooh, attempting to return Christopher's compass to him, trips into Christopher's briefcase and his papers spill onto the ground. Christopher angrily reminds Pooh that he has matured, before they are separated in the fog. He falls into a Heffalump trap, which is flooded by rainfall, soaking him and his belongings.

Christopher discovers Eeyore and Piglet, who lead him to the others, hiding in a log from what they believe to be a Heffalump (revealed to be the squeaking of a rusty weather vane from Owl's house after the wind knocked it off its tree during their tea time). Unable to convince his friends of his identity, he pretends to defeat the Heffalump and finally wins them over, and they joyfully greet him. When they reunite with Pooh, Christopher apologizes for getting upset earlier and explains his dilemma. Pooh forgives him, reminding Christopher that they have found each other, and comforts him with a hug. The next morning, Christopher rushes from the Hundred Acre Wood to make his presentation, after Tigger gives him his briefcase. En route, he encounters his family, but then leaves for London, greatly disappointing Madeline.

Pooh discovers that Tigger removed Christopher's paperwork when drying his briefcase, so Pooh, Tigger, Piglet and Eeyore decide to return it. They meet Madeline, who recognizes them from her father's drawings. Madeline joins them, wanting to dissuade her father about sending her to boarding school, and they board a train to London. Evelyn follows after discovering a note Madeline wrote. At his presentation, Christopher discovers that his briefcase contains items from the Wood that Tigger had given him, including Eeyore's tail. Evelyn arrives and Christopher joins her to search for their daughter. Madeline's group stow away in crates, but Tigger, Eeyore and Piglet are accidentally ejected, subsequently encountering her parents. Pooh and Madeline arrive near the Winslow building and reunite with Christopher and the others, but Madeline accidentally trips on some steps and loses all but one of the papers, upsetting her and Pooh. Christopher assures Madeline that she is too important to him to send her to boarding school.

Using the one paper Madeline saved, Christopher improvises a new plan involving selling luggage at reduced prices to ordinary people to increase demand and giving employees paid leave. Winslow Jr. dismisses the idea, but his father Giles Winslow Sr. warmly agrees to it. Christopher further humiliates Winslow Jr. by exposing how he was out golfing all weekend and calls him a Woozle. Christopher finally takes his family and the quartet into the Hundred Acre Wood to meet his other friends. As everyone relaxes at a picnic, Pooh and Christopher Robin both share a tender moment together. In a mid-credits scene, the employees of Winslow's enjoy themselves at the beach while Richard M. Sherman performs "Busy Doing Nothing" on a piano. Pooh, Tigger, Piglet and Eeyore are relaxing on beach chairs with Eeyore saying, "Thank you for noticing me".

