Incan emperor Kuzco has been spoiled his entire life and has become incredibly conceited. On the day before his 18th birthday, Kuzco announces his plan to destroy a nearby village and replace it with "Kuzcotopia", a lavish summer home, despite the objections of kindly village leader Pacha. Kuzco also discovers his elderly advisor and alchemist Yzma usurping his duties, and quietly fires her. That evening, Yzma and her bumbling henchman Kronk plan to poison Kuzco's wine and take over the empire before the news of Yzma's termination becomes public. However, Kronk takes the wrong chemical vial from Yzma's lab, accidentally turning Kuzco into a llama.

Yzma orders Kronk to knock Kuzco out, take him outside the city, and kill him. An attack of conscience and a series of mishaps causes Kronk to drop the sack containing the unconscious Kuzco; the sack lands on the back of Pacha's cart, and Pacha leaves the city before Kronk can catch up to him. Kuzco awakens in Pacha's backyard, having lost some of his memory. Believing Pacha transformed and kidnapped him, Kuzco orders Pacha to take him home. However, Pacha refuses to help unless Kuzco promises not to destroy the village and build Kuzcotopia elsewhere.

Despite Pacha's warnings, Kuzco ventures into the jungle alone; he is pursued by jaguars, but saved by Pacha. Kuzco begrudgingly agrees not to build Kuzcotopia if Pacha takes him home. On the way to the palace, Kuzco tries to renege on his promise; he and Pacha fight on a collapsing bridge, before being forced to work together to escape some crocodiles and a crumbling cliff face. With the bridge out, they have 4 days to get to the palace. Meanwhile, Yzma discovers Kronk lost Kuzco instead of killing him, and the two of them set out to find him and kill him.

At a roadside diner, Pacha and Kuzco arrive at the same time as Yzma and Kronk, but neither party initially notices the other. However, Kronk nearly recognizes Pacha, and Pacha overhears Yzma's plans to kill Kuzco. He sneaks Kuzco out of the diner, but Kuzco thinks Pacha is trying to trick him; he and Pacha fight again, parting ways. As Kuzco tries to catch up to Yzma and Kronk, he overhears them discussing his assassination and also learns that no one in the empire misses him. Seeing Yzma's true colors, Kuzco eventually realizes Pacha was right, but cannot find him. Meanwhile, Kronk later remembers where he saw Pacha before, and tells Yzma about this.

The next morning, Kuzco finds Pacha and the two reconcile. They return to Pacha's village, only to discover Yzma and Kronk in Pacha's house, posing as distant relatives. Pacha's family distracts Yzma to give Pacha and Kuzco a head start; however, Yzma and Kronk still manage to confront the duo in Yzma's lab. Yzma orders Kronk to kill the duo, but after another attack of conscience and some insults from Yzma, he tries to kill her instead, causing her to drop him through a trapdoor.

As Pacha and Kuzco flee Yzma and her guards, Kuzco tries several different potions, without success. Finally figuring out which vial is the 'human' potion, Kuzco, Pacha, and Yzma fight over it; Yzma is accidentally turned into a cat by one of the other potions, and Pacha nearly falls off the side of the palace, causing Kuzco to have to rescue him and let Yzma have the vial. With some teamwork and inadvertent assistance from Kronk, the two eventually recover the vial; after finally becoming human again, a reformed Kuzco makes amends with the people he hurt, and builds a much smaller summer home next to Pacha's village, sharing a swimming pool with Pacha and his family. Meanwhile, Kronk goes on to become the leader of a scout troop, with cat Yzma as a reluctant member of it.

