In 2011, DSO agent Leon S. Kennedy enters a Eastern Slav Republic to confirm rumors that Bio-Organic Weapons (BOWs) are being used in the country's civil war, and ignores the government's order to retreat. He comes across his contact, who has been attacked and is then killed by a strong Licker. After a brief fight, a second Licker appears but spares Leon, Leon is knocked out, strong lead Lickers are released in the wild, and finds himself tied to a chair by rebel fighters JD; the former teacher Alexander Kozachenko, better known as Buddy; and the elderly Ivan Judanovich, the group's Ataman.

President Svetlana Belikova meets agent Ada Wong, who is posing as a BSAA agent. Ada explains a human infected with the dominant Las Plagas parasite will have a brief master-slave relationship with lesser BOWs infected with the Progenitor-virus (Lickers Beta themselves). Elsewhere, Leon tries to warn the soldiers of Ivan's infection look, but Buddy starts a shoot-out. Buddy kills Ivan after being asked. Leon escapes and meets JD, only for Plaga hosts to attack them. JD leads Leon to a church, where they regroup with other rebels. JD helps Leon escape, urging him to stop Buddy, as he is obsessed with his hatred of the government, which bombed his school and killed his fiancée and students. Leon runs into Ada, who admits she is in the country to collect a sample of Las Plagas. She leaves and warns him the city will soon be bombed. Leon returns to the church to find Ganados have attacked it, killing the other rebels and infecting JD. After Buddy arrives, Leon kills JD. Leon then asks Buddy to give up Las Plagas, but he refuses and escapes when military jets bomb the church.

Svetlana exposes Ada as a fraud and captures her after a fight after having an international arrest warrant issued for her. Leon enters the bunker where Ada is held, and the two meet at the main hive control. When Svetlana and her army troops surround them, Ada releases a smoke bomb and escapes while Leon kills several soldiers. Buddy arrives and sends younger recruited Lickers to attack the troops. Svetlana dispatches Tyrants to eliminate Leon, Buddy and the Lickers but they are defeated. Just as Svetlana prepares for her press conference, she is informed of a joint Russian and American invasion, which forces her to resign in her defeat and never to be seen again.

As Leon and Buddy watch the invasion, Buddy asks Leon to kill him before his Plaga takes control. Leon refuses, telling him to live to serve as the living memory of those who died and then shoots Buddy's spine, severing the Plaga's control over him. Afterwards, Leon speaks to Hunnigan about the mission, while elsewhere Ada speaks to her employer about a Las Plagas sample she retrieved, but does not make clear if she will hand it over or not, though she expresses appreciation for having her arrest warrant taken down.

A post credit scene shows Buddy, alive in a wheelchair, determinedly pushing it up a hill to a school as children around him hurry towards the school, showing he resumed his teaching career.

