At the end of the 21st century, chemical warfare has devastated the Earth. The only habitable land left consists of two territories: the United Federation of Britain (UFB), located on the British Isles and northwestern Europe, and the Colony, spanning all of Australia. Factory workers from the Colony commute to the UFB each day via "The Fall", a gravity elevator running through the Earth's core. The disparity in living conditions has resulted in a group of people called the Resistance, deemed terrorists by the UFB, who seek to improve living conditions in the Colony.

Colony worker Douglas Quaid has been having unsettling dreams of being a secret agent partnered with an unnamed woman. Tired of his factory job building police robots with his friend Harry, he visits Rekall, a company that implants artificial memories. He decides on the fantasy of being a secret agent. During exploratory preparations by technician McClane, they discover that Quaid already has real memories of being a spy. As McClane starts to question Quaid about the memories, a squad of UFB police arrive, killing the Rekall staff in an attempt to arrest Quaid and cover up the incident. Strange instincts kick in as Quaid defends himself, killing the entire squad and escaping. Upon returning home, Quaid relays the incident to his wife Lori, who attempts to kill him, revealing that she is a UFB intelligence agent, and they have only been married for six weeks, not seven years as he believed. After Quaid escapes, he receives a phone call from Charles Hammond, a former colleague of his who directs him to a safe-deposit box. Inside it, Quaid finds a message from himself with the address of a UFB apartment.

Upon arriving at the UFB, Quaid is pursued by Lori and her team, but is rescued by Melina, the woman from his dreams but she is injured and Quaid is forced to retreat to an apartment to recuperate. Quaid finds another hidden recording, revealing his true identity as rogue UFB agent Carl Hauser, who was working for UFB Chancellor Cohaagen to infiltrate the Resistance before Hauser defected upon falling in love and realizing he was on the wrong side. He had discovered a kill code that can disable an army of robots that Cohaagen intends to use to destroy the Colony and give the UFB more living space but was captured by UFB agents and implanted with false memories to manipulate him. Nonetheless, Matthias, the Resistance leader, should be able to retrieve the memory of the kill code. Subsequently, Melina reveals she was Hauser's lover before he was captured, comparing their matching scars from when they were shot while holding hands in Quaid's "dream". They are soon surrounded by the police and Harry, who claims that Quaid is still in a Rekall-induced dream and killing Melina is the only way out. A confused Quaid is initially uncertain until he sees a tear on Melina's cheek and shoots Harry. Lori pursues the pair, but they manage to escape.

Melina takes Quaid to see Matthias, whom he asks for help in remembering his past to know who he is, which Matthias counters saying that only he can know who he is and that he should not allow the past to define him.  Quaid allows Matthias access to his mind, who searches his memories for the kill code until Lori and Cohaagen storm the Resistance base. Cohaagen reveals he came up with the idea of the kill code to trick Quaid into leading him to Matthias.  He kills Matthias, takes Melina prisoner, and orders a team to restore Quaid's memory to the "old Hauser" as a reward and second chance before leaving to begin his invasion of the Colony. However, Hammond reveals himself and frees Quaid, but is killed in the process.

Cohaagen loads the Fall with his robot army as Quaid sneaks on board, setting timed explosives throughout the vessel while searching for Melina. After reaching the Colony and freeing her, they fight Cohaagen and his soldiers until Quaid's explosives detonate. Quaid and Melina jump off before the vessel plummets back into the tunnel and explodes underground, killing Cohaagen and destroying his army along with the Fall itself.

Quaid wakes up in an ambulance with Melina, who he soon realizes is a holographically disguised Lori and is forced to kill her before reuniting with the real Melina as news channels declare the Colony’s independence from the UFB, while Quaid wonders if what he is experiencing is just a dream or real.

