After touring factory locations in Mansfield, Ohio for her father's company, Hong Kong-based Zhang Innovations, Daya Zhang and her entourage are abducted by mercenaries despite her bodyguard and head of security Bao Yung attempting to fight them off. The kidnappers leave Yung unconscious with a USB flash drive addressed to security expert Ray Breslin.

In Los Angeles, Breslin crosses paths with Shen Lo, a former Zhang Innovations bodyguard. Both men are after Daya's father Wu Zhang, whose company is responsible for building covert prisons around the world. They meet with Breslin's associates – his girlfriend Abigail, Hush, and Jules – when Yung arrives with the flash drive. It contains a video message from Lester Clark, Jr., Daya's kidnapper and the son of Breslin's former partner; in business with Zhang, Lester, Sr. betrayed Breslin and was sent to his death.

Breslin reaches out to Trent DeRosa, an associate, and they trace the video to a prison compound in Latvia known as “Devil's Station”. Abigail is also abducted, and Wu, having arrived in Mansfield to meet with police, receives a video call from Lester. Seeking revenge for his father's downfall, Lester demands a $700 million ransom, and executes a hostage. Breslin, DeRosa, Jules, Shen, and Yung depart for Latvia to rescue Daya and Abigail.

When Lester threatens the prisoners and kills a hostage, Wong, Zhang Innovations' technology analyst, agrees to give him access to Zhang's technology. Hush surveils the prison by drone, and its thermal imaging camera reveals Lester has created his own black site. Breslin infiltrates the compound through the sewers while Shen and Yung approach the outer walls. Alerted to their presence, Lester leaves Daya atop the wall as bait. Realizing Lester is leading them to a trap, Shen tries to hold position and wait for Breslin, but Yung charges recklessly ahead, and he and Shen are subdued by land mines and captured. Lester reveals the flash drive was a tracker that led his men to Abigail, and deduces that Shen and Daya are in love. He shoots Yung and taunts Breslin by video call before cutting Abigail's throat.

Breslin proceeds through the compound, killing several of Lester's henchmen. Shen steals a guard's stun gun as he is taken to the cells, using it to start a fire; he melts his restraints and subdues the guards in the smoke. He frees Daya, but they are confronted by more guards. DeRosa arrives, killing the guards with incendiary rounds. In the ensuing chaos, Shen kills Lester's remaining henchman Silva in a hand-to-hand fight, while rescuing Wong. Trapped in a shootout with Lester in the upper cells, Breslin is wounded and disarmed, but manages to overpower Lester before slitting his throat and throwing him off the walkway, avenging Abigail.

Returning to Mansfield, Daya coldly greets her father, now aware of the true nature of his business, before leaving with Shen. DeRosa comforts Breslin over Abigail's death, urging him to forgive himself, while at the same time persuading Breslin to join him in South America; claiming that Breslin owes him one and Breslin decides to retire.

During the ending credits, Yung is revealed to have survived but heavily wounded. He is seen crawling and stumbling through the sewers and proceeds to escape by himself.

Breslin wearing security overalls, carrying a semi automatic weapon, drops through a central shaft from the ceiling into the tunnel sewers, just moments after Yung had already been seen arriving into that same tunnel from a side shaft, seemingly stalking Yung.

