Hai Phượng is an ex-gangster who is estranged from her family after her father disowns her for having an affair with a gangster and getting involved with criminal activities. After giving birth to her daughter Mai, Hai Phuong decides to lie low in the countryside, where she works as a debt collector and barely supports her daughter or herself. Mai has been bullied due to Hai Phuong's reputation as a debt collector and for not having a father. Mai wants to stop going to school so that she can support her mother. One day, while in the market Hai Phuong sees Mai being accused of stealing a wallet. The other witness pressures Hai Phuong to take their side, which hurts Mai's feelings and thus she ran away. It is then revealed that Mai was just returning the wallet to a drunk man who lost it. As Hai Phuong tries to find Mai, she quickly realizes that Mai is being captured by thugs.

Hai Phuong tries to catch up to the thugs, but she has to fight through many henchmen. After a lengthy chase, Hai Phuong barely loses them, but not before learning that the thugs are taking Mai to Saigon. Hai Phuong hitches a ride in a truck and finally arrives in Saigon. She then tries to get help from her fellow gangster member, but she is rebuffed. Hai Phuong goes to the police and steals reports of criminals related to missing children. Hai Phuong confronts a criminal named Trực, which results in a brutal fight where at first Truc gains the upper hand, but Hai Phuong manages to turn the tables and nearly kills him, but spares him because of Truc's mother.

Truc then tells the location about the thugs and Hai Phuong finds their base of operations, which reveal that the thugs are using children as illegal child organ donors. She then defeats many henchmen before facing the boss of the operation Thanh Soi. Thanh Soi soundly defeats and knocks her out and tells her henchmen to throw Hai Phuong in the river, but not before Hai Phuong hears the train that Thanh Soi would be taking. Hai Phuong is rescued in the river by Detective Luong, but escapes with the help of a sympathetic nurse. Hai Phuong then goes to her brother for help, but he refuses to help her due to him not getting over the fact that Hai Phuong betrayed their family to become a gangster and never came back to reconcile with them when she left the gangster life and never attended her parents funeral, where he also tells that she is a terrible mother and Mai deserves better. Detective Luong finds Hai Phuong and convinces her to team up with him.

Hai Phuong and Detective Luong finally finds the train, where both of them fight off the henchmen. While on the train, Thanh Soi tells her henchmen to change the train tracks on her signal as well as split the train. Hai Phuong confronts Thanh Soi and finally kills her, but not before the train tracks switch, splitting the train apart. Hai Phuong reunites with Mai and quickly defeats the remaining thugs, but is shot in the chest by a random thug. The thug plans to kill her, but Detective Luong kills the thug. Hai Phuong is hospitalized and makes amends with her brother. Mai is treated well by her peers and Hai Phuong promises Mai she will teach her how to fight.

