In 1964, Ip Man is diagnosed with throat cancer due to his history of chronic smoking. After his rebellious son Ip Ching fights back against a bully and is subsequently expelled from school, Ip Man decides to travel to San Francisco in order to look for study opportunities. After Ching and his father get into a heated argument that ends with the elder Ip slapping his son, he decides to entrust Ching to his friend, Fat Bo.

Ip arrives in San Francisco, where his student Bruce Lee has upset the local martial arts community by opening a kung fu school, teaching non-Chinese people martial arts, and writing a book explaining Chinese martial arts in English.<ref>{{Cite web |url=https://comicbook.com/movies/2019/03/18/ip-man-4-trailer-teaser/ |title=IP Man 4 Teaser Trailer Pits Donnie Yen Against Scott Adkins |last=Outlaw |first=Kofi |date=18 March 2019 |website=Comicbook.com |url-status=live |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20190319163011/https://comicbook.com/movies/2019/03/18/ip-man-4-trailer-teaser/ |archive-date=19 March 2019 |access-date=19 March 2019}}</ref> He discovers from his reporter friend Liang Gen that, because he is a foreigner, a referral letter from the Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Association is needed to enroll Ching into an American school. Tai Chi master/CBA chairman Wan Zhoungwa refuses to write the letter as Ip is unbothered by Lee's actions, whereas the other grandmasters display open contempt.

While leaving the school after a meeting with the principal, Ip sees upon Wan's teenage daughter, Yonah, undergoing a racist attack from a rival cheerleader, Becky, and her male friends. Ip steps in to rescue her and escorts Yonah home, where Wan is upset that she got into a fight. Ip steps in by telling Wan that Yonah wasn't wrong to defend herself. Wan then explains to Ip that, because he's a foreigner, he doesn't understand that the whites in his country love harassing Chinese. Just before Ip leaves, Wan blames him for using his daughter merely to get the letter and Wan challenges Ip to a fight for it. The duel is interrupted by an earthquake, and Wan tells Ip they will finish it at the upcoming Mid-Autumn Festival. Ip refuses, explaining that he merely accompanied Yonah home for her own safety, and leaves.

Meanwhile, Becky lies to her parents, claiming that Yonah attacked her. Her father, Andrew Walters, an officer of the INS, is pressured by his wife into holding the Association responsible and deporting all illegal immigrants associated with them. Elsewhere, Hartman Wu, a staff sergeant in the US Marines and student of Lee, attempts to convince Barton Geddes, the Gunnery Sergeant on his base, to incorporate Chinese martial arts into their hand-to-hand combat training, especially Wing Chun, which is useful in close quarters. Geddes, an openly racist man, proves the Marines' current karate program is superior by having Hartman fight the Marines' karate sensei, Colin Frater, with Frater easily besting Hartman.

However, Hartman manages to convince the unit's commanding officer of kung fu's potential use, and is permitted to film the Mid-Autumn Festival happening at Chinatown for research purposes, infuriating Geddes, who instructs Frater to challenge the grandmasters at the festival. Frater easily defeats 3 of the grandmasters before Ip intervenes and defeats him. Meanwhile, Wan, who was supposed to be present at the festival, is arrested by the INS. Upon seeing Frater in the hospital, Geddes barges into the CBA, and uses both his strength and karate prowess to brutally defeat all the grandmasters present. He then threatens Walters into releasing Wan into Marine custody before bringing Wan into the camp to fight him. Due to a tip-off by a subordinate of Walter and another student of Lee named Billy, Ip and Gen help the Association evacuate by the time the INS conducts its raid. Lee provides refuge for the Association, earning their respect.

Wan and Geddes arrive at the camp and duel. Wan is able to match Geddes at first, but is eventually overwhelmed and seriously injured. Wan is taken to the hospital, where an emotional Ip calls Fat Bo to reveal that he has cancer. Fat Bo angrily tells Ip's son to talk to his father, after many previous refusals. The older Ip apologizes to his son for slapping him during their argument, and promises to teach his son kung fu when he comes back to Hong Kong. Hartman brings Ip to the Marines, and he triumphantly defeats the Gunnery Sergeant after a strenuous fight.

Wan prepares the referral letter for Ip, but Ip turns it down, having decided against moving to America. Ip returns to Hong Kong and accepts the fact that Ching likes martial arts. A weary but determined Ip instructs his son to film him as he demonstrates Wing Chun on a wooden dummy.

An epilogue shows Lee paying respect to Ip at his funeral. Onscreen text states that Ip succumbed to his cancer in 1972 at the age of 79 and that the Marines officially incorporated Chinese martial arts into their training by inviting Chinese martial artists to come to the base to train them starting in 2001.

