John Wick is making his way through Manhattan before he is labeled "excommunicado" for the unauthorized killing of High Table crime lord Santino D'Antonio on Continental grounds.{{efn|name=Timeline|As depicted in ''John Wick: Chapter 2'' (2017)}} At the New York Public Library, John retrieves a marker medallion and a rosary. He is injured in a fight with another hitman, Ernest, and seeks medical treatment from an underworld doctor. His excommunicado status activates before the doctor can finish, forcing John to complete the suturing himself. Upon leaving, he is quickly pursued by various gangs of assassins, all of whom he kills.

John meets with The Director, the head of the Ruska Roma crime syndicate, to whom he presents a rosary and demands safe passage to Casablanca. As John was once a member, the Director reluctantly agrees. It's also revealed that John Wick's birth name was Jardani Jovonovich. Meanwhile, a High Table Adjudicator meets with New York Continental manager Winston and the Bowery King, notifying them that they both have seven days to resign from their positions as a consequence of helping John.{{efn|name=Timeline}} The Adjudicator enlists Zero, a Japanese assassin, and orders him to stab the Director through both of her hands as penance for aiding John. In Casablanca, John meets Sofia, his former friend and manager of the Moroccan Continental.

John presents the marker, which binds Sofia to return a debt to John; John rescued Sofia's daughter and put her in hiding. John demands to be directed to the Elder, the only person above the High Table. Sofia begrudgingly takes John to Berrada, her former boss, who tells John he may find the Elder by wandering through the desert until he can no longer walk. When Sofia refuses to give Berrada one of her trained Belgian Malinois, he shoots the dog but hits its bulletproof vest. John prevents Sofia from killing Berrada. They fight their way out of the kasbah and drive into the desert, where she leaves John. Seven days later, the Adjudicator and Zero confront the Bowery King, who refuses to abdicate his position. In response, Zero's students slaughter the Bowery King's men while Zero slashes the Bowery King seven times with a wakizashi. Meanwhile, John collapses in the desert and is brought to The Elder. John states that he wants to live to keep the memory of the love he once had with his late wife.{{efn|As depicted in ''John Wick'' (2014)}} The Elder agrees to forgive John under of the condition of killing Winston and subservience to the High Table for the remainder of his life. To show his fealty, John severs his ring finger and gives his wedding ring to The Elder.

Upon returning to New York, John is attacked by Zero and his students before reaching the protection of the Continental. The Adjudicator arrives, but Winston refuses to abdicate, and John refuses to kill him, leading the Adjudicator to revoke the Continental's neutral status and send both Zero and an army of heavily armed High Table enforcers to kill John and Winston. Winston provides John with weapons and the assistance of concierge Charon and his staff. After killing all the enforcers, John is ambushed by Zero and his students; John proceeds to kill all but two. Zero battles John but is eventually defeated and left to die. On the roof of the Continental, The Adjudicator agrees to a parley with Winston, who offers allegiance to the High Table.

John arrives; Winston shoots him, and John falls to the street below. Winston reassumes his position, and the severely injured John is secretly delivered to the Bowery King in an underground bunker; the two agree to join forces against the High Table.

