Eleven years after the events in Burma, Vietnam War veteran John Rambo lives in Bowie, Arizona at his deceased father's horse ranch, which he manages with his old friend, Maria Beltran, and her granddaughter, Gabriela. She informs them that her friend Gizelle had found Gabriela's deadbeat father, Manuel, in Mexico. Despite their protests, Gabriela secretly travels to Mexico, where Gizelle leads her to Manuel's apartment. When she asks him why he abandoned Gabriela and her mother, he coldly reveals that he never cared for either of them.
 
Gizelle takes a heartbroken Gabriela to a nearby club, where she is drugged and kidnapped by the enforcers of a Mexican cartel. After learning of Gabriela's disappearance, Rambo rushes to Mexico and interrogates both Manuel and Gizelle about Gabriela's whereabouts. Gizelle reluctantly leads Rambo to the club where Gabriela was last seen, and Rambo confronts El Flaco, the man who last spoke with Gabriela. A mysterious woman, Carmen Delgado, tails Rambo as El Flaco leads him to Gabriela's supposed location. Rambo is confronted, beaten, and marked by the cartel, led by brothers Hugo and Victor Martinez. They take his driver's license, revealing the location of the ranch and a photo of Gabriela, whom Victor recognizes. The cartel vows to mistreat Gabriela further due to Rambo's actions.

Carmen takes Rambo back to her home, where she cares for him until he fully recovers. Meanwhile, Gabriela is repeatedly dosed with heroin and sold into sexual slavery. Carmen says she is an independent journalist who has been investigating the Martinez brothers, who had kidnapped and murdered her sister. Rambo later raids one of the brothels, killing several men until he finds a drugged Gabriela. While driving home, Rambo thanks Gabriela for giving him hope and meaning for the last ten years, but she dies from an overdose. An enraged Rambo sends Maria away, rigs the ranch with booby traps for a confrontation, and later returns to Mexico to ask for Carmen's help finding Victor. Carmen initially refuses, telling Rambo it will solve nothing, but is convinced after he appeals to her grief and frustrations.

Rambo raids Victor's home, kills the guards, and decapitates Victor. In retaliation, Hugo leads a group of hitmen to Rambo's ranch, where each falls victim to the booby traps. Saving Hugo for last, Rambo uses his bowie knife, cuts his chest open, and rips out his heart. In the aftermath, a weakened Rambo sits on the porch of his father's house, vowing to continue fighting and keep the memories of his loved ones alive. During the credits, flashbacks of Rambo's battles from the past films are shown, with Rambo saddling up his horse and riding off into the sunset.

