Vic Manning, an aggressive Los Angeles Police Department detective, is in pursuit of notorious drug lord Oka Tedjo, who six months earlier murdered Vic's partner, Sara Morris, after which Vic's superior, Captain McHenry, places him on leave. Because his pursuit of Tedjo during that encounter was hampered when his glasses were knocked off his face, Vic undergoes corrective laser eye surgery. This requires him to remain off duty for an additional day or two, due to his reduced vision as his eyes heal. However, when an informant contacts him with a lead on Tedjo's current whereabouts, he calls for an Uber and is picked up by Stu Prasad, an unassuming driver who diligently performs his job with an eye on the reviews he receives on the Uber app.

Vic's investigation leads him and a reluctant Stu around Los Angeles. Along the way, Stu deals with both Vic's violent and reckless behavior and his own feelings for a woman named Becca, a close friend and business partner with whom he plans to open a spin biking business. Becca, having broken up with her boyfriend, wants Stu to come over for casual sex, but Stu has been genuinely in love with her from the moment he met her and wants a more serious relationship. As Stu and Vic get to know one another, they confront each other about Stu's lack of courage with Becca, while Stu criticizes Vic for his toxic masculinity and his insensitive treatment of his daughter Nicole, a sculptor.

At a house in Long Beach, Vic detains Amo, a key suspect of his investigation, and rescues a Pit Bull Terrier named Pico after it was fed packets of drugs. After Stu accidentally shoots Amo in the leg, Vic leads them to an animal hospital, where both Amo and Pico receive medical attention from the vet. After Vic learns from Amo that Tedjo will be making a drug drop later that night, they are ambushed by a group of Tedjo's men, who taunt Vic about his daughter's art exhibition that same evening. With Stu's help, Vic dispatches the thugs and races to Nicole's exhibition to warn her about the potential danger, but she is fed up with her father's obsession with hunting down Tedjo. Afterwards, Stu drops off Vic near the drop location and calls Becca, admits his feelings for her, and then tells her they cannot be friends anymore since he knows she does not feel the same way. At the drop Vic calls for backup but Stu notices only a lone police car heading his way.

As he waits for Tedjo, McHenry arrives and Vic finds out that she is a dirty cop who has been working with Tedjo and was planning to frame Vic for murder to get him off their trail. However, before she can kill Vic, Stu runs her over and the two unsuccessfully attempt to escape from Tedjo in his car. As they struggle against him, Nicole arrives after tracking down Stu by his Uber app, and is nearly shot by Tedjo. Stu jumps in front of her and takes the bullet, and Vic almost kills Tedjo before Nicole stops him. The police arrive to bring Tedjo to justice.

As Stu and Vic recover in the hospital, Vic gives Stu a five-star Uber review (despite the $5534.95 fare he has to pay him). By Christmas Becca has opened a successful spin biking business and Vic, who arrives at Nicole's home with Pico, discovers that Nicole is dating Stu.

