{{Long plot|date=March 2023}}
Deep in the Peruvian jungle, 6-year-old Dora Márquez, daughter of jungle explorers Cole and Elena, spends her days going on adventures with her monkey friend Boots, her 7-year-old cousin Diego, and imaginary friends Backpack and Map while thwarting Swiper the thieving fox. One day, Diego and his family leave for Los Angeles while Dora and her parents remain searching for the hidden Inca city of gold, Parapata.

After 10 years of exploring, Cole and Elena decipher the location of Parapata. They choose to send a now 16-year-old Dora to Diego's high school in Los Angeles so she can be with kids her own age while they travel to the lost city. Staying with Diego's family, Dora meets fellow students Sammy and Randy. Sammy sees Dora as a rival due to her intelligence while Randy develops a crush on her. Dora enjoys her new life, but Diego is embarrassed by her eccentric behavior; it culminates in mocking and name-calling by some of their classmates when she publicly dances to a conga song at the school dance. As Diego walks off, Dora tries to comfort him, but Diego says that she is no longer in the jungle, which leads to a fallout between them.

The following day on a class field trip to a museum, Dora, Diego, Sammy, and Randy are lured to its off-exhibit archives, where they are captured by mercenaries led by Powell who fly them to Peru. When they land, a man named Alejandro, who claims to be a friend of Dora's parents, helps them escape. In the process, the mercenaries, aided by Swiper, steal Dora's map. Alejandro reports that Dora's parents have gone missing and the mercenaries are searching for them in hopes of getting into Parapata to steal its treasures. Dora resolves to find her parents first with Alejandro's help, while Diego comes along to look after her, with the other teens tagging along in hopes of being rescued.

The group travels through numerous obstacles, including quicksand, Inca ruin puzzles, hallucination-inducing spores that turn them into animated characters in the style of the original cartoon, and attacks from forest guards of Parapata. During the journey, Sammy warms up to Dora and becomes nicer to everyone. Dora and Diego eventually reconcile and she notices he has a crush on Sammy. After numerous hazards, Dora reaches her parents just outside the borders of Parapata, but Alejandro reveals he was the mercenaries' leader all along and captures them. Boots appears and helps the teens escape. Boots helps Dora find her confidence and she resolves to find the way inside Parapata to acquire the treasure so they can use it to bargain for Elena and Cole's release.

Inside the hidden city, Dora and the others solve its temple's puzzles and dodge its traps, bringing them to the central shrine. Alejandro, having secretly followed them, arrives as the group reaches its final test. He thinks that the gold is the right answer against Dora's warnings but fails and falls into a trap. The soldiers guarding Parapata, having apprehended Dora's parents and the mercenaries, confront the teens. Dora speaks to their queen in Quechua, assuring that the kids only came for her parents and to learn. Dora figures out the answer to the test and the Incas allow her and everyone to have a single glimpse of their greatest treasure, until Swiper appears and steals the smaller idol, thus angering the gods. As Alejandro and the mercenaries are taken away, Dora regains the idol and puts it back into place.

After the group leaves, Diego and Sammy become a couple. Dora's parents and the teens arrive at her jungle home, where the other teens' parents are waiting. Cole and Elena discuss going on another expedition as a family, but Dora decides to return to school in Los Angeles.

During the credits, Dora and her friends sing "We Did It" at the high school dance to celebrate their victory, Alejandro remains a prisoner in Parapata for another 1,000 years, and Cole and Elena stop Swiper from running away with their Inca item.

