After their adventures in ''Jumanji'', Spencer Gilpin, Anthony "Fridge" Johnson, Martha Kaply, and Bethany Walker plan to meet up over Christmas break to hang out after being apart for their first year of college. Spencer, feeling despondent that his life is not as glamorous as his friends', enters ''Jumanji'', wanting to feel like his avatar again: the strong, courageous Dr. Smolder Bravestone. 

Upon visiting his house when he doesn't show up as planned, his friends are shocked to realize he entered the game. They go in after him, knowing he can't get out by himself. Unfortunately, Spencer's grandfather Eddie and Eddie's estranged friend Milo, who are upstairs, are also sucked into the game. As Bethany is left behind, she turns to Alex Vreeke for help. He is the ''Jumanji'' player who was previously stuck in the game for twenty years before they saved him.

Martha once again becomes the avatar Ruby Roundhouse, but to their surprise, Fridge becomes Bethany's old avatar, Professor Sheldon Oberon, while Eddie and Milo become Dr. Smolder Bravestone and Franklin "Mouse" Finbar. Expecting the story to have the same gameplay, the group is further surprised to learn it has a new plot: ''Jumanji'' is suffering from a drought. To leave the game, they must end it by recovering a magical necklace known as the Falcon Heart, stolen by warlord Jurgen the Brutal. Spencer also has a new avatar: a skilled female thief called Ming Fleetfoot.

The group struggles to adjust to their avatar changes and have trouble with Milo not being able to relay information quickly, and Eddie's volatile carelessness costing them several lives. They reunite with Alex as his avatar Jefferson "Seaplane" McDonough, along with Bethany, who has become a black stallion named Cyclone. Eddie learns that Milo is terminally ill and wants to make amends before he dies, which leads them to reconcile.

The group finds a river with magical water that allows them to switch avatars. This lets each of them return to their original avatars while Eddie and Milo are given Ming and Cyclone. When Eddie and Milo are captured by Jurgen's soldiers, the friends split up to rescue their teammates and get the Falcon Heart. They fight off Jurgen and his men and steal back the Falcon Heart. Cyclone, revealed to be a Pegasus, flies up to the sky, letting sunlight touch the necklace as instructed and therefore completing the game.

Milo, who appreciates his new, flying form, opts to stay in the game. The rest return to the real world, and Spencer reconciles with his friends. Meanwhile, his mother brings a repairman into the house, who sees the broken video game console and inadvertently triggers the game.

