Private military advisor Santiago "Pope" Garcia, an ex-United States Army Delta Force operator, works in Colombia combating the drug cartels. An informant named Yovanna asks for his help with smuggling her and her brother out of the country in exchange for the whereabouts of drug lord Gabriel Martin Lorea. Yovanna tells Pope that Lorea lives in a remote house in the jungle with $75 million in cash. Pope travels to Florida to recruit his fellow ex-Delta Force operators, to seize the money under the pretense of working for the government: Tom "Redfly" Davis, a realtor; William "Ironhead" Miller, a motivational speaker; his brother Ben "Benny" Miller, an MMA fighter; and Francisco "Catfish" Morales, a pilot. Pope manages to convince the team to steal the money for themselves.

To minimize casualties, the team infiltrates the house while Lorea's family attends church. They subdue the guards but cannot find Lorea or the money. Pope realizes that the money is hidden in the walls, and they find far more than expected. Redfly fixates on the money, demanding that the team continue loading past their exit time until they convince him that they must leave. After loading the money in a van, they do a final sweep for Lorea. He ambushes them and wounds Ironhead, before Pope kills him. The crew tends to Ironhead's wound, as the family returns with the rest of the guards. The crew eliminates the guards, burns down the house, and drives away with $250 million in cash while leaving the family alive.

They rendezvous with Yovanna and her brother at an airfield where Ironhead's contact provides them with a Mil Mi-8 military helicopter to reach the getaway boat off the coast of Peru. Catfish doubts that the helicopter can hold their weight with all the money and reach the altitude necessary to cross the Andes Mountains. Unwilling to leave behind any money, Redfly urges Catfish to proceed. They drop Yovanna and her brother off over the border where Redfly aggressively questions her knowledge of them, knowing she could link them to the robbery. Yovanna adamantly denies knowing any of the crew's personal information. Before leaving, Pope gives Yovanna and her brother $3 million and visas to Australia. As the crew departs, an unsatisfied Redfly claims that Yovanna was lying but Pope talks him down.

As they attempt to fly over the mountains, the money's significant weight causes them to crash on a cocaine farm. The farmers become hostile after mistaking the crew for DEA Special Agents, causing Redfly to kill several of them. Pope compensates the village elder for the deaths while Catfish, Ironhead, and Benny prepare mules to transport the money through the mountains.

When they reach the top of the mountain and make their way down, a firefight takes place with two villagers seeking to avenge the deaths of their families. Redfly kills one before the second kills him; Pope subsequently kills the second villager. Disheartened, they proceed towards the ocean with the money and Redfly's body. Benny scouts ahead and reports the getaway boat is still there, but the town is filled with remnants of Lorea's crew waiting for them. They fill their packs with whatever cash they can carry and dump the remainder in a ravine. They attempt to quietly move through the town carrying Redfly's body, but are discovered. After a significant car chase and various shootouts, the team makes it to the boat with Redfly's body.

The team, including Redfly's estate, nets roughly $1.1 million each. As the team sets up payment accounts, feeling guilty that Redfly's greed cost him his life, they sign over their share to Redfly's family.

Pope plans to head to Australia to find Yovanna. Before leaving, Ironhead gives Pope a set of coordinates{{snd}}the location of the ravine.

