Twelve-year-old Eric Kirby and his mother's boyfriend, Ben Hildebrand, are parasailing near the restricted Isla Sorna.{{efn|The island was restricted to visitors following the events of ''The Lost World: Jurassic Park'' (1997).}} As the boat enters a thick fog, the crew is killed by an unknown attacker,{{efn|The film does not specify what killed the boat crew, although director Joe Johnston and cinematographer Shelly Johnson believed Pteranodons would be the likely culprit of the attack.<ref>{{cite web |title=An Interview with Shelly Johnson, ASC - Cinematographer of Jurassic Park 3 |url=https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EjTDPgOSHhw&t=3204s |website=Jurassic Outpost |access-date=January 24, 2023 |date=June 27, 2020 |at=53:20}}</ref>}} prompting Ben to detach the line before the vessel crashes into rocks. Eric and Ben drift towards the island.

Eight weeks later, paleontologist Dr. Alan Grant struggles to secure funding for his ''Velociraptor'' research, and rebuffs the public's obsession with the events on Isla Nublar.{{efn|As depicted in ''Jurassic Park'' (1993)}} Grant discusses his research with a longtime colleague Ellie, hypothesizing that ''Velociraptors'' were intellectually and socially advanced beyond even primates. In Montana, his assistant, Billy Brennan, uses a three-dimensional printer to replicate a ''Velociraptor'' larynx.

Paul and Amanda Kirby, a seemingly wealthy couple, offer to fund Grant's research if he gives them an illegal aerial tour of Isla Sorna. Grant reluctantly agrees, flying there with Billy, two of the Kirbys' mercenary associates (Udesky and Cooper), and their pilot (Nash). Grant learns that the Kirbys intend to land; he protests, but Cooper knocks him unconscious. Grant awakens to find that the group has landed, although they reboard the plane when a large theropod approaches the runway, leaving Cooper behind. During takeoff, a ''Spinosaurus'' emerges and devours Cooper. The aircraft hits the dinosaur and crashes into the trees. The ''Spinosaurus'' attacks the plane and eats Nash, who has Paul's satellite phone. The survivors flee, only to encounter a ''Tyrannosaurus''. The two dinosaurs fight, and the ''Spinosaurus'' kills the ''Tyrannosaurus'' as the humans escape.

Grant furiously confronts the Kirbys, who reveal they are a middle-class divorced couple, searching for their son Eric and Amanda's boyfriend Ben. Government agencies declined to help, so they deceived Grant and brought him along, mistakenly believing him to have experience on Isla Sorna. The group begins searching for Eric and Ben, as they travel to the coast. They find Ben's corpse attached to the parasail, which Billy takes. They also stumble upon a ''Velociraptor'' nest, and Billy secretly places two eggs in his bag.

They soon discover an InGen compound, where a ''Velociraptor'' ambushes them, before vocalizing for its pack. The humans escape within a herd of ''Corythosaurus'' and ''Parasaurolophus'', causing a stampede; Grant and Udesky become separated from the others, who take refuge in the trees. The ''Velociraptors'' injure Udesky and thus attempt to lure Paul, Amanda, and Billy into rescuing him; their trap is unsuccessful, and they soon kill Udesky. Elsewhere, Grant observes the pack communicating, and suspects that they are searching for something; as he tries to slip away, they ambush him. Eric appears, dispersing the attack with canisters of tear gas, before taking Grant to an overturned supply truck where he has been taking shelter. The following morning, they reunite with Billy and the Kirbys, and narrowly escape the ''Spinosaurus'' again.

Grant, wary of Billy, checks his bag and sees the ''Velociraptor'' eggs, which Billy says he planned to sell to fund the dig site. Grant decides to keep the eggs, hoping the ''Velociraptors'' may spare the group if the eggs are returned. The group enters an aviary, which they realize is filled with ''Pteranodons''. A flock attacks the group and flies away with Eric. Billy rescues him using the parasail; the flock then attacks Billy, who is seemingly killed. Boarding a barge, the group escapes the aviary but unintentionally leaves the cage unlocked. That night, they retrieve the ringing satellite phone from a pile of ''Spinosaurus'' feces. Grant contacts Ellie for help, but the ''Spinosaurus'' attacks them. Fuel from the boat leaks into the water, and Grant ignites it using a flare gun, forcing the ''Spinosaurus'' to flee.

The following day, the group hears the sound of the ocean and arrives at the coast, but they are ambushed by the ''Velociraptors'', who have come for the eggs. Grant uses the replica larynx to confuse the pack into thinking more of their troops need help. Upon hearing distant helicopters, the raptors spare the group and reclaim their eggs before disappearing into the jungle. U.S. Marines and Navy, summoned by Ellie, land on the beach and rescue the survivors. On a military helicopter, they discover that Billy has also been rescued. They watch the now-freed ''Pteranodons'' fly alongside them as they leave the island.

