In 1911, just two days before the Fourth of July, Lady and Tramp have three well-mannered daughters, Annette, Collette, and Danielle, and a rambunctious son named Scamp. After Scamp makes a mess in the house, Jim Dear chains him to the doghouse outside as punishment. His parents, Tramp and Lady, are distraught that their son cannot settle down and follow house rules. Tramp tries to reason with Scamp, but soon loses his temper at his son's insistent desire to be a wild dog.

Later, Scamp sees a pack of stray dogs, named the Junkyard Dogs, harassing the dogcatcher outside the yard and becomes intrigued. Scamp breaks free from his chain and runs off to find the pack. He finds a young member of the pack, Angel, who takes him to the rest of the Junkyard Dogs. Meanwhile, Lady notices that Scamp has run away and alerts Tramp.

Scamp attempts to join the Junkyard Dogs right away, but their leader, Buster, gives him a test in the alley, in which Scamp must successfully grab a tin can from a savage bullmastiff named Reggie. This results in Reggie chasing Scamp, but Reggie ends up getting caught by the dogcatcher. The Junkyard Dogs then head to a park, where Sparky, another member, tells a story about Tramp escaping from a group of dogcatchers. Buster, who was once good friends with Tramp, angrily explains that Tramp fell in love with Lady and became a house pet. Scamp is in awe that his father used to be a Junkyard Dog. After Scamp and Angel narrowly escape from a train and fall into a river, they start to fall in love.

Meanwhile, Scamp and Angel discover that Scamp's parents, along with Jim Dear, Darling, Jock, and Trusty, are still searching for Scamp. Angel, who was once a house pet herself, is disgusted that Scamp would choose living on the streets over a loving family. The next day, Buster gives Scamp his final test: to steal food from his family's picnic. Scamp succeeds, but is caught by Tramp. As Scamp confronts his father, Buster convinces Scamp to stay a wild dog, and Tramp leaves disheartened. To prove that Scamp is now a Junkyard Dog, Buster removes Scamp's collar, much to Scamp's delight.

Scamp celebrates his newfound freedom until Angel scolds him for leaving his family. Annoyed, Scamp inadvertently reveals that Angel wants to be a house dog. She runs off, and Scamp tries to find her, to no avail. Scamp is caught by the dogcatcher, and a shocked Angel runs to find Tramp; the two set off to rescue Scamp. At the pound, he is placed in the same cell as a vengeful Reggie. Tramp, arriving just in time, manages to fight Reggie off to rescue Scamp, and the dogcatcher is defeated by Angel. While walking home, Scamp apologizes to his father for running away, and Tramp then apologizes back for losing his temper at him.

The dogs return to the junkyard, where Scamp retrieves his collar. Scamp then traps Buster under piles of junk, and Buster is abandoned by his former gang members, who all decide to find owners. Tramp then returns home with Scamp, Scamp's family decides to adopt Angel, and the Junkyard Dogs all find new homes with loving owners.

