Bruce Nolan is a television field reporter for ''Eyewitness News'' on WKBW-TV in Buffalo, New York, who usually covers mundane news stories, but desires to be the station's anchorman. When Bruce's coveted job is taken by his rival, Evan Baxter, a vulgar on-camera outburst leads to his dismissal from the station. After a series of misfortunes, Bruce complains to God that "He's the one that should be fired". Bruce receives a message on his pager, which takes him to an empty warehouse where he meets God. God offers to give Bruce his powers (in a limited section of Buffalo) for a week, under two conditions—Bruce cannot tell others he's God, nor can he use the powers to alter free will.

Bruce at first uses his powers for personal gains, such as getting his job back, exacting revenge on a street gang that bullied him earlier, and impressing his girlfriend, Grace Connelly. He also causes miraculous events to occur at otherwise mundane events that he covers, such as discovering Jimmy Hoffa's body during a segment on police training, or causing a meteor to harmlessly land near a cook-off, earning him the nickname "Mr. Exclusive". Bruce also causes Evan to embarrass himself on-air, consequently getting Evan fired, and Bruce becomes the new anchor. However, Bruce also starts hearing voices in his head and re-encounters God, who explains the voices are prayers that Bruce must deal with. Bruce creates a computerized email-like system to handle the prayers but finds that the influx is far too many for him to handle, and thus sets the program to answer every prayer 'Yes' automatically.

During a party celebrating his promotion, Grace discovers Bruce kissing his co-anchor, Susan Ortega, and quickly leaves. Bruce tries following her and then using his powers to convince her to stay, but cannot influence her free will. Bruce later discovers that Buffalo has fallen into chaos due to his actions: parts of the city believe the Apocalypse is nearly upon Earth due to the meteor strikes, while a large number of people, all having prayed to win the multi-million dollar lottery and received only seventeen dollars in return, have started rioting in the streets. Bruce returns to God, learning he cannot solve all the problems and so must figure a way out on his own. Bruce thus starts helping others without divine powers, including giving Evan his job back. As he returns to his computer at home and goes about answering prayers, he finds one from Grace, wishing for his success and well-being. Another prayer from Grace immediately arrives, this one wishing not to be in love with Bruce anymore, to avoid further pain.

Realizing his selfishness, Bruce walks alone on a highway, asking God to take back his powers and leaving his fate in his hands. Bruce is suddenly hit by a truck and meets God in the afterlife. When God asks him what he really wants, Bruce admits that he only wants to make sure Grace finds a man that would make her happy. God agrees, and Bruce is finally resurrected from the dead and taken to the hospital, where his doctors help him recover. Grace arrives at the hospital and rekindles her relationship with Bruce. Following his recovery, Bruce returns to his field reporting job and decides to take more pleasure in the simple stories.

