A fanatically religious homeless man ("Cross Bearer") rants about sinners, and after donning a makeshift mask made of cloths, uses a hammer to kill a drug addict. Elsewhere, Heather, a lesbian stripper, is shown living with her girlfriend Victoria, a controlling and drug-addicted single mother, who she is cheating on with a co-worker named Bunny. Dreaming of running away to Greece together, Heather and Bunny agree to do a drug run for their abusive boss, intent on stealing the money they get for the delivery.

Anton, the pimp who ordered the cocaine, lives on the top floor of an abandoned nightclub, which he brings two prostitutes to. Cross Bearer follows the three up to Anton's room, murders them with his hammer, and takes Anton's gun. Heather, Bunny, Victoria, another stripper named Cindy, and Cindy's boyfriend Mark, an amateur filmmaker and pornographer, arrive and are let in by Cross Bearer. The quintet finds Anton's remains, and are confronted by Cross Bearer, who shoots and beats Mark, and suffocates Cindy to death with a bag of cocaine.

Victoria goes to look for a way out on her own, and is chased to a dead end, where Cross Bearer bludgeons her, and rips her tongue out. Heather and Bunny become separated, and the latter is murdered. Cross Bearer goes after Heather but is distracted by Mark, who shoots him with Anton's gun. After dealing with Mark, Cross Bearer pursues Heather, and the two fight, with Heather emerging victorious, pulling off Cross Bearer's mask, and pummeling him with a baseball bat. While looking for an exit, Heather finds the dying Mark, who gives her Anton's hidden stash of money.

In the morning, Heather goes to her workplace, gives a nihilistic speech, and shoots both her boss and a man who had heckled her the previous day. Heather then goes to a train station with Victoria's baby, while back at the derelict nightclub, Cross Bearer recovers, and stumbles away while muttering, "Oh, loving Lord, guide my hand, so I may purify this Earthly paradise for your great return".

