Pauline is a disturbed and delusional high school student with a dysfunctional family and aspirations of a career as a surgeon. Her younger sister, Grace, suffers from cystic fibrosis, and the girls' controlling, strongly Christian mother Phyllis shares a strained marriage with their father, Bob. Pauline often has vivid dreams about herself and others being mutilated with excessive amounts of blood, after which she wakes panting in an orgasmic state.

Pauline decides to lose her virginity to a boy named Adam, and wants to do so while on her period due to her fascination with blood. She and Adam have sex, and as she has an orgasm, she imagines herself choking Adam and the bed filling with blood. She then asks Adam to perform oral sex on her. Unaware that she is menstruating, he obliges, only to run to the bathroom in disgust when he sees the blood.

During sex education class, Pauline takes a sample of her blood and puts it under a microscope to check for STDs. She later approaches Adam while he is with his girlfriend Natalie and alludes to their encounter, leading to Natalie breaking up with him. Natalie and her friend subsequently throw toilet paper and spray paint profanities on Pauline's house. At school the next day, Pauline physically assaults both Adam and Natalie, resulting in her being expelled.

Pauline overhears her parents discussing Grace's doctor's plans to put her on a waiting list to receive a lung transplant. That night, Grace suffers a severe coughing fit. In the morning, Pauline drugs her father with tea and ties him up before confronting a neighbor who lives across the street who had rebuffed Pauline's earlier attempts at friendship. She lures the girl to her backyard and uses chemicals to knock her out, subsequently drugging Grace.

Pauline cuts and shaves her own hair before transplanting the healthy girl's lungs into Grace's body, placing Grace's diseased lungs on ice, and stitching both girls up. Phyllis arrives home and panics at the sight of her husband bound and gagged; she frantically screams and searches the house for Grace. She finds Pauline in the garage with the bodies. Pauline explains that it is her first surgery, and urges her mother to take a closer look. Phyllis screams hysterically before embracing her. Pauline at first smiles proudly, but then begins to wail as she apparently realizes what she has done.

