While traveling cross country, a couple (Betty, and an unidentified man, referred to as "Driver,") encounter a gang of robbers. The group, led by dedicated criminal Hoag, consists of Hoag's brother Ethan, his daughter Amber, girlfriend Tamara, Amber's boyfriend Denny, and the violent Flynn. Suspecting the couple to be wealthy and wanting to redeem himself for a robbery he botched earlier, Flynn kidnaps them and has Ethan interrogate them about accessing their money. However, Betty commits suicide by cutting her throat on a knife Ethan had against her neck, which leads to the Driver breaking out of his handcuffs and killing Ethan.

Meanwhile, Flynn, having brought the Driver's car to the group's hideout, finds a girl in the trunk of the vehicle. Amber, after watching a true crime show, realizes the girl is Emma Ward, a wealthy heiress who disappeared after 14 of her friends were murdered at a party, and the kidnapped man is the one responsible for the massacre. Following Hoag's orders, Denny and Tamara head to the gas station to contact Ethan, only to find his and Betty's bodies and the Driver missing. They bring Ethan's corpse back to their hideout and inadvertently bring the Driver along with them, who had been hiding in the cadaver.

The Driver begins his assault on the robbers by capturing Hoag, while Denny is injured by booby traps the Driver had set up previously. The Driver tortures Hoag, cutting off his ear as a trophy, and finally killing him by dropping him into a meat grinder. With the group's van blown up by the Driver, Denny volunteers to get their old jeep working, as he is bleeding out. Although he succeeds, the Driver shoves him into the open car engine, badly mangling his face and spraying Amber with blood, who was in the driver's seat. Amber flees, and the Driver pursues her. The others hear the noise and head to the barn to take the jeep. The Driver throws a scythe through Amber, piercing her lung. He leaves her to die when he realizes the rest of the gang is escaping. Nevertheless, Flynn accidentally hits Amber with the jeep when she stumbles onto the road.

After dropping Denny off at the hospital, Flynn, Tamara, and Emma head to a motel to stay the night. When Flynn uses the Driver's credit card to pay for a room, he inadvertently causes motel owner Harris to call the police as the Driver had previously checked himself into the same motel. The Driver himself also arrives at the motel and nearly strangles Tamara to death in the shower but stops when he hears Flynn shoot the sheriff responding to Harris' call. Flynn discovers Tamara, and when she startles him, he kills Tamara, which leads to Emma attempting to escape. Though Flynn manages to stop her, he is run over by the Driver in a police car. Emma flees into a nearby junkyard.

When the Driver confronts Emma, she beats him with a metal pipe. Flynn shows up with a shotgun, and the Driver pushes Emma out of the way, getting shot in the chest with a shotgun by Flynn. The Driver survives due to his Kevlar vest, leading to a fight between the two. Ultimately, Flynn manages to grab his weapon, but is knocked out by Emma before he can fire it. Emma, explaining she wants to be the one who kills the Driver, attempts to shoot him, but the firearm fails to operate because a new shell had not been pumped into the chamber. Impressed, the Driver cuts out a tracking device he placed inside her stomach and announces that she is free. He then finishes Flynn off with a shotgun blast to the face and also shoots Harris for knowing his real name.

The next day, the Driver murders Denny in his hospital bed with a clipboard while disguised as a doctor. As he leaves, he notices Emma being wheeled into the hospital on a stretcher. He touches her arm before departing.

