The film's premise is partially set in 1931 during the Spanish Civil War, where a group of children are brought to a monastery turned hospital for medical testing. None of the children are capable of feeling physical pain, something that Dr. Holzmann (Derek de Lint) hopes to remedy with his procedures. However at the same time his colleague Dr. Carcedo (Ramon Fontserè) believes that the children would be better off locked up in his asylum in Canfranc. One young patient named Benigno (played at different ages by Ilias and Mot Stothart) stands out in particular, as he proves to be exceptionally intelligent but also easily prone to violent outbursts - something that Carcedo believes is further proof of his beliefs. Benigno while in his cell realizes that a little girl he met and cared for is in the cell next to his but the walls are thick. One day he steals a spoon and digs everyday for 4 years until he makes a big enough hole to see her and eventually reach her.
Holzmann's plans of finding a remedy for the children is never brought to fruition, as the hospital is besieged and taken over by several different military forces.

The movie is also set during modern day, where David (Àlex Brendemühl) has woken up in a hospital to discover that he had been in a serious automobile accident. His pregnant wife (who had been riding in the car with him) did not survive the crash but the doctors did manage to save the baby, who is now being housed in another floor of the hospital. To add to his misery, the doctors inform David that scans of his body has revealed that he has lymphoma and requires a bone marrow transplant if he is to have any chance of survival. David turns to his parents in hopes that one of them can donate their marrow, only to learn that he was adopted. From there, David sets out to find his biological parents, a process that inevitably leads him to the hospital that was run by Holzmann and Carcedo. He eventually discovers that his father is Benigno, who was renamed Berkano (Tómas Lemarquis) by one of the military forces, and that Berkano had become a prolific torturer for this new regime, still kept in his original cell no. 17 of the monastery,that had been turned into prison.
David goes into room no.17 but there's no one there. He then sees a hole in the floor, he climbs down and it leads through a tunnel and opens up into a cavern filled with lit candles. There he sees a dead woman who has blue eyes, like his own. He figures out that this was his mother(she was), he also notices that she looks very preserved,like she's just sleeping. While David is looking at her, Berkano walks up behind him, He is bald, with no hair anywhere on his body, his body is oddly still muscular(even though he hasn't eaten in years) and he's aged but not as he should have for the time that has passed. He should be dead but he is not. He attacks David with a knife and is about to kill him. But when he looks into David's eyes, he realizes they are the same eyes as the woman he loves. He then knows that David is their son. Berkano backs up and accidentally knocks over a candle and the area where David's mother is laying catches fire. Berkano picks up David's mother and stands there holding her as the flames engulf them both and spreads to David, but of course Berkano feels no pain and neither does his son. Father, mother and son stand reunited as they burn in the flames,with father and son looking into the other's eyes.

