A year after the massacre by piranhas in Lake Victoria, Arizona, an eradication campaign has left the lake uninhabitable and the town largely abandoned. At Cross Lake, two farmers search the waters. Piranha eggs laid inside a dead cow hatch, and the farmers are killed and eaten.

Maddy, a marine biology student, returns home for the summer to the water park she co-owns and is annoyed to find that the other owner, her stepfather Chet, plans to add an adult-themed section to the waterpark that allows nudity, which Maddy disapproves of. Later that night, Maddy's friend Shelby and her boyfriend Josh go skinny-dipping in the lake, where a piranha enters Shelby's vagina. Their friends Ashley and Travis begin to have sex in their van, but Ashley trips the handbrake, causing the van to roll into the lake. Handcuffed to the van during foreplay and unable to escape, Travis is devoured while Ashley, on the roof, calls for help. With no one around to rescue her, the van sinks into the lake and the piranhas eat her.

Maddy consoles Shelby about their friends before a swarm of piranhas attacks them. They manage to kill one, and Maddy, Kyle, and Barry take it to marine expert Carl Goodman to examine. He informs them that the piranhas may be moving between lakes and could evolve to become terrain-viable. The trio returns to the lake, where they establish that the piranhas cannot enter the pipes connecting the lake and the water park. While Shelby and Josh are having sex, the piranha in Shelby's vagina bites Josh's penis, forcing him to chop it off. Both are hospitalized but survive. Kyle is revealed to be corrupt and taking bribes from Chet, who is pumping water from an underground river into the water park. Chet orders Kyle to keep Maddy from finding out about his plans.

The adult water park opens with David Hasselhoff in attendance as a celebrity guest. Among the guests are Deputy Fallon and former cameraman Andrew Cunningham, survivors of the previous year's piranha attacks in which Fallon lost his legs. Fallon is there in the hope of overcoming his fear of the water. Maddy attempts to shut the waterpark down but is stopped by Chet and Kyle. The piranhas enter the area through the pipes and attack, killing many guests. Fallon uses a shotgun leg prosthesis to fight the piranhas, while Hasselhoff rescues a young boy named David. An uncaring Chet attempts to escape, but a low-hanging flag decapitates him.

Maddy instructs Barry to begin draining the pools while she attempts to save those still in the water. However, while rescuing people, she becomes caught in the suction and is dragged down to the bottom of the pool. After Kyle refuses to save her because of his fear of piranhas, Barry, despite being unable to swim, leaps down and brings her to the surface, at which point Maddy is revived. Thankful for saving her, she shares a kiss with Barry, who reveals he has a crush on her.

Another employee, Big Dave, pours chlorine into the pipes, followed by a lit joint. The resulting explosion kills most of the piranhas. Kyle is also killed by a falling trident. The celebrations are cut short when Maddy receives a phone call from Mr. Goodman, who informs them that the piranha left with him is evolving and, after escaping its tank, can now move on land, to which Maddy replies that she already knows. A lone piranha emerges from the pool and decapitates David while he tries to photograph it, and the film ends with the survivors taking pictures of David's corpse on their phones, with his hysterical mother covered in his blood

