{{Overly detailed|details=|date=April 2021}}

Teenager Elena Peters and her friends, Missy and Josh, go to a party. Elena witnesses her boyfriend, Brian, with another woman. She leaves the dance floor and enters an isolated room. In the room, Elena finds a box, in which Arkin is trapped. Elena carefully opens the latches, releasing Arkin, as a series of traps are set off at the party, killing dozens of partygoers. Brian tries to escape but is killed while Elena watches in horror. She tries to help Missy, but is unable to prevent her and others from being crushed by an elevator. The Collector appears and kidnaps Elena, while Arkin escapes by jumping out of a window, landing on a car and breaking his arm in the process.

Arkin is taken to the hospital, where he is arrested by the police. After suffering nightmares of his torture from the Collector, he is approached by Lucello, an employee of Elena's wealthy father, who has hired a team of mercenaries to hunt the Collector down and save Elena. Lucello implies that if Arkin leads them to the Collector's hideout, he will expunge Arkin's record. Arkin leads the mercenary group to the Collector's base, an abandoned hotel. Meanwhile, Elena witnesses a man being tortured before escaping from the trunk. Upon the team's arrival, Arkin refuses to go inside, but Lucello forces him at gunpoint to guide them through the hotel. The Collector reenters the room and notices Elena has escaped before being alerted to the team's presence.

Upon entering the hotel, the team is attacked by various people who the Collector has captured and driven insane with drugs, forcing the team to shoot them. Elena discovers another trunk and opens it. A seemingly innocent girl named Abby steps out, pleading to Elena for help before following her through the hotel to look for a way out. While wandering the hotel in separate groups, Arkin, Elena, and Lucello's team all encounter live humans being experimented on and human body parts rearranged to resemble insects, which are displayed in glass cases. Elena is discovered to have a hearing aid by Abby, who claims to be the Collector's favorite and is reluctant to break his rules. Abby screams that Elena is at a disadvantage because of her hearing aid, and will never win. The two are then separated when the Collector finds them.

Elena and Lucello reunite and find Abby, who asks to escape with them. Elena, remembering Abby's earlier outburst, pleads with Lucello not to trust her, but he allows Abby to accompany the group. They find a room with a small window that they cannot escape through, but they see two homeless men outside. Arkin shoots one of the men, knowing that reports of a shooting will draw the police's attention. Abby sabotages their efforts of escaping before being killed by one of the Collector's traps. The Collector finds them and becomes enraged upon seeing Abby's body inside one of his traps. He attacks the group, grabs Elena, and escapes.

As police converge at the hotel, the lights go out throughout the building. Lucello is caught in a trap and has to be left behind. Arkin and Paz find Elena strapped to an autopsy table, but when they approach, they are trapped in a cage that falls from above. The Collector appears and threatens to burn down the building, but Arkin manages to open the cage by having Elena re-break his arm so that he can reach the latch.

The group escapes and finds an exit door to the building, but it is jammed from the outside. The Collector appears again. As the Collector is about to kill Arkin, Lucello intervenes, having escaped from his trap, and sacrifices himself so that Arkin can gain the upper hand. Arkin beats the Collector, throws him down a chute, and sets it on fire. As the building burns down, the firefighters hear Elena's screams and open the door from the outside, allowing Elena and Arkin to escape. As the two sit outside, Arkin notices a pile of trunks and, upon searching inside them, finds the Collector's burned mask with no body.

Sometime later, Arkin manages to track down the Collector's house by researching every registered entomologist within a 200-mile radius of their last encounter. Arkin confronts the unmasked Collector, holds him at gunpoint, and taunts him about his father, a museum curator who, Arkin has learned, was responsible for the Collector's insanity and ''modus operandi''. Arkin announces his intentions of torturing and eventually killing the Collector, so that he can never harm anyone ever again. When the Collector tries to attack him, Arkin forces him into the red trunk and locks him inside.

