Peaches is engaged to marry a good-natured mammoth named Julian, to Manny's disapproval, as he finds Julian annoying and incapable of protecting Peaches. The concern escalates when Peaches reveals her wish to travel and explore the world as their honeymoon, which both Manny and Ellie oppose. Diego and Shira want to have children, but fear that they would not make any friends, as the other kids are afraid of saber-tooth tigers. Sid is about to propose marriage to his girlfriend, Francine, but is dumped by her and laments his solitude. During Manny and Ellie's wedding anniversary party, asteroids (caused by Scrat, who was propelled into outer space in an abandoned spaceship during an attempt to bury his acorn) strike the place and the herd barely escape. Meanwhile, at the underground lost world, Buck returns a ''Chasmosaurus'' egg back to its mother after it was stolen by a trio of flying dromaeosaurs named Gavin, Gertie, and Roger. Buck discovers an ancient stone pillar and takes it to the surface, where he reunites with the herd.

Buck explains that according to the pillar, the asteroids had caused two extinctions in the past, and with the next one incoming, he believes that the only place they could find a clue to stop it is on the site of the impact of the previous ones; a nearby volcano, as according to its engravings, they always fall in the same place. However, the dromaeosaurs overhear their conversation, and Gavin and Gertie decide to stop them, believing that they could easily avoid the impact due to their natural ability to fly, thus not only getting their revenge on Buck, but also eradicating Earth's population and securing domination over the planet for the dinosaurs. Roger is reluctant, but Gavin and Gertie strong-arm him into cooperating. 

During the herd's journey to the crash site, Buck discovers that the asteroids have electro-magnetic properties, theorizing that if a huge quantity of smaller asteroids should be gathered and launched into orbit, they could attract the main asteroid away from Earth. After facing several obstacles and the interference of the dromaeosaurs, the herd arrives at "Geotopia", a community of immortal animals formed inside one of the asteroids that have fallen long ago, where Sid meets Brooke, a ground sloth who instantly falls in love with him. However, Shangri Llama, the leader of Geotopia, refuses to cooperate with Buck's plan to use the city's crystals to stop the asteroid, as they are the key to the residents' longevity. Sid inadvertently destroys the entire city when he attempts to remove one of the crystals to present Brooke with, immediately aging them to their real ages and revealing their true crone-like appearances, much to Shangri Llama's anger.

After Brooke convinces the other Geotopians that stopping the asteroid is more important than their lost youth, they and the herd fill up a volcano with the gigantic ball made up of all the crystals so that the pressure launches them into space to draw the asteroid away. The dromaeosaurs attempt to intervene, but they soon discover that they will not survive the asteroid's impact. Buck convinces them to help and that the dinosaurs can live with them in harmony. After a small meteor hits Gavin, they accidentally drop the last and biggest crystal, but Manny and Julian work together to throw it back into the volcano, causing Julian to earn Manny's approval. The volcano then erupts, sending the magnetic crystal shards to the sky, which sends the oncoming asteroid back into space.

The herd then departs for home, including Sid, who parts ways with Brooke, but just after they leave, a small crystal shard falls inside a hot spring, giving it rejuvenating properties and making the Geotopians and Granny, who stayed behind with them, regain their youth. After the herd returns, Manny and Ellie reconcile with Peaches, encouraging her to chase her dreams. Peaches and Julian marry afterwards while Diego and Shira become heroes to the kids, and a rejuvenated Brooke appears during the wedding ceremony to reunite with Sid, much to his delight.

