In the 28th century, cooperation between the Earth and extraterrestrial species has expanded the former International Space Station to the point its mass threatens to cause gravitational disruption to Earth itself. Relocated to deep space, it becomes Alpha, a space-traveling city inhabited by millions of species from thousands of planets. A police division was created by the United Human Federation to preserve peace throughout the galaxy, and amongst its staff are Valerian and his partner Laureline.

En route to a mission, Valerian had dreams of a planet, Mül, where a low-tech humanoid race is fishing for pearls containing energy using animals to replicate them. Mül was annihilated by a huge spacecraft that caused an explosion. Some of the inhabitants enter a discarded vessel and accidentally trap themselves inside, but the planet's princess Lihö-Minaa is stranded outside. Just before her death, she conveys an energy wave containing a telepathic message.

Valerian and Laureline are on a mission to retrieve the last "Mül converter", which is currently in the hands of black market dealer Igon Siruss. In a marketplace on planet Kirian in an alternate dimension, Valerian disrupts a meeting between Igon and two hooded figures who resemble the humanoids from his dream. They seek the converter, the small animal in his dream. Valerian and Laureline recover the converter and steal one of the energy pearls. Aboard their ship, Valerian learns that Mül was destroyed 30 years earlier, and all information about it is classified.

They return to Alpha where commander Arün Filitt informs them that the center of the station has been irradiated by an unknown force, rendering it highly toxic. Troops sent into the area have not returned, and the radiation is increasing. Laureline and Valerian are assigned to protect the commander during an interstation summit to discuss the crisis; against the commander's wishes, Laureline maintains possession of the converter.

During the summit, unidentified humanoids suddenly attack, incapacitating everyone, and kidnapping Filitt. Valerian chases the kidnappers to the irradiated area but crashes his spaceplane. Laureline enlists alien information brokers known as Dogan Daguis to track Valerian and finds him at the edge of the irradiated zone. She is kidnapped by a primitive tribe, the Boulan Bathors of the planet Goara, and presented at their emperor's dinner as the choice course. Valerian infiltrates the tribe's territory with the help of the shape-shifting Bubble. They rescue Laureline and escape, but Bubble is fatally wounded.

Valerian and Laureline venture further into the irradiated area, and discover it is not dangerous, and that it contains the remains of an antique spacecraft. They reach a large, shielded hall where they find the humanoids, known as the Pearls, with an unconscious Filitt. The Pearls' leader, Emperor Haban Limaï, explains that his people lived peacefully on Mül until a battle occurred between the Federation and a hostile alien race. Filitt, the human commander, ordered the use of fusion missiles that disabled the enemy mothership and sent it crashing into the planet, destroying Mül. Upon her death, Princess Lihö-Minaa transferred her soul into Valerian's body.

The surviving Pearls were trapped in a downed spaceship from the battle, but they managed to repair it and learn human technology and history. Scrap ships took their vessel to Alpha, where they assimilated more knowledge from different species and built a ship of their own. They needed the converter and pearl in order to launch their ship and find a planet to recreate their homeworld. Filitt admits his role in the genocide but argues it was necessary to end the war and covers it up to prevent humans from losing credibility and influence in Alpha. Valerian and Laureline disagree, arguing that the commander is trying to avoid the consequences of his actions. When Filitt becomes belligerent, Valerian knocks him out.

Valerian hands over the pearl he took from Igon, and Laureline persuades him to return the converter. While the Pearls prepare their spacecraft for takeoff, Filitt's K-Tron robot soldiers attack the Pearls, and the government soldiers are sent to assist Valerian but are ultimately defeated. The spacecraft departs and Filitt is arrested. Valerian and Laureline are left adrift aboard an Apollo Command/Service Module, and Laureline answers Valerian's marriage proposal with a "maybe" as they wait for rescue.

