In 2257 AD, in the colony of the planet New World, all the male colonists have been afflicted with a condition called the Noise, which causes everyone to see and hear each other's thoughts. The colonists were at war with the native humanoid species referred to as The Spackle, which killed all the female colonists, while half the men survived. Todd Hewitt lives in Prentisstown with his adoptive fathers, Ben Moore and Cillian Boyd. Other residents include the preacher Aaron, the town's mayor David Prentiss, and his son Davy. Prentiss has learned to control his Noise, making his thoughts difficult to see and hear. A spaceship that lost contact with the First Colony approaches New World and a scout ship is sent to investigate the planet, but it crashes. Todd discovers someone stealing something and chases the thief, only to come upon the crash site.

Todd returns to the town and tries to keep quiet, but the other men hear and see his thoughts about the crashed ship. They head to investigate the crash scene but find no survivors. While Todd is alone, he meets Viola, the ship's only survivor. He is shocked to see a girl, as he has never seen one before. The men from Prentisstown capture Viola and she is brought to the mayor's home, where she is questioned about where she came from. Prentiss leaves to go speak to the men and leaves Davy in charge of keeping an eye on her. Davy unwittingly toys with one of Viola's gadgets, which causes it to shoot large holes in the walls, allowing Viola to escape.

During her escape, Viola overhears Prentiss talking about preventing her from contacting the colony's mothership, intercepting their landing, killing them while they are still under cryosleep, and scavenging the ship. Viola hides in Todd's family's barn, where Todd eventually finds her. Todd tries to hide Viola when one of Prentiss' men arrives looking for her. Ben tells Todd about another settlement called Farbranch and says Viola will be safe there.

Viola escapes while Todd chases after her. Prentiss and the men arrive at the farm, demanding Viola back as they believe she is a spy. Davy kills Cillian, and Ben is forced to join them. Meanwhile, Todd catches up to Viola and the two begin a journey to Farbranch, accompanied by Todd's dog, Manchee. During the journey, Viola reveals to Todd that she is from a large Colony Ship carrying over four thousand passengers and that her parents died during the journey from Earth to the New World. When they encounter a Spackle, Todd attempts to kill it in self-defense, but Viola stops him because it does not appear to be dangerous. They arrive at Farbranch, a town inhabited by men, women, and children, some of whom are displeased with Todd's presence because he is from Prentisstown.

Todd discovers his mother's diary, but Viola reads it to him because he cannot. The diary reveals that the women were not killed by the native aliens, but rather by Prentiss and the men of Prentisstown. The men could not stand not knowing the thoughts of the women when they could hear theirs, which drove them crazy. Prentiss and his men arrive, again demanding Viola. Ben tries to get Todd to surrender Viola, but Todd is upset with him for lying. Ben uses his Noise to create an image of Viola to distract Prentiss and his men, while Todd and Viola escape. Aaron chases after them. They come upon a boat, and, as they escape, Aaron kills Manchee, further enraging Todd.

The next day, Viola and Todd arrive at the ruins of the first colony ship. They enter it and try to send a signal to the colony ship, but the antenna is damaged, so Todd attempts to repair it. When Prentiss and his men arrive, Todd surrenders himself, as Prentiss is holding Ben hostage. Aaron goes inside to kill Viola, but she immolates him with one of her gadgets. Todd appears, but Prentiss shoots Ben. Todd goes to him and, unknown to Prentiss, Ben gives him a knife. Todd engages Prentiss, but he uses illusions of himself to distract Todd and shoots him. As he is about to kill Todd, Todd uses illusions of his mother and other women, calling Prentiss a coward. Viola pushes Prentiss off the cliff ledge to his death. The colony ship appears in the sky, causing Davy and the remaining Prentisstown men to flee.

Todd wakes up in the colony ship's medical room, almost fully healed. Viola tells him she has learned to love his planet and shows him the new colonies her people are building there.

