{{Long plot|section|date=October 2021}}
In the year 2031, humanity establishes its first space colony on Mars. By 2042, "the Alliance" world government has been formed and quantum propulsion technology allows humanity to travel beyond the Solar System. The Mars colony fails in 2281 and the Alliance controls three colonies: Earth, Zafdie, and Ellora. In 2519, Zafdie attempts to secede from the Alliance. During the ensuing war, General James Ford drops a quantum bomb ("Q-bomb") on the rebel colony, killing 70 million people. Ford is subsequently dishonorably discharged from the Alliance military and gains the sobriquet of "the Blood General." His wife, Doctor Lea Goss, leaves him.

In 2524, miners of the Vander Mining Corp stationed on planet 4217LYA (Heracles System) encounter unseen aliens and Captain Juda Sayle reports an "FC incident" to Alliance Command. On Earth, General Eron Ryle is notified of the incident and orders that Goss and Ford be brought to him.

At a local bar, Dash meets with Ford to discuss a potential job. A fight between them and civilians is interrupted by Commander Marcus Bleck, who passes on Ryle's request for Ford's counsel. Ford refuses but subsequently agrees upon the promise of him being reinstated and his military pension restored. At McMillian Airfield military base, Ford and Dash meet with Goss and Ryle for a situation briefing. Survivors of the FC incident are brought to the base for quarantine and questioning but quickly turn hostile and begin killing base personnel. The survivors appear to be infected, do not respond to attempts at communication, appear unfamiliar with human technology (though they quickly learn how to operate  firearms), and "infect" several base personnel, who then themselves turn hostile. The infected humans attempt to board a transport ship but are stopped and eliminated by Ryle, Ford, Dash, and several other soldiers.

While the Alliance Senate debates, Ryle authorizes Operation Cosmic Sin – with a strike team consisting of himself, Ford, Dash, Goss, Bleck, Specialist Braxton (Ryle's nephew), and technician Corporal Ardene (who is qualified to operate and arm a Q-bomb) – to launch a retaliatory and decisive counterstrike against the aliens. Ardene reports that a tachyon pulse was released by one of the infected miners during the base attack, which will allow the aliens to know Earth's location in six or seven hours. The team is outfitted with small arms, Icarus suits designed for combat and space environments, and a Q-bomb. The team plans to travel to the Ellora colony via quantum jump, where Alliance forces have shot down an alien ship. The team intends to recover the downed ship and analyze the cosmic radiation to locate the alien's home planet, then destroy it with the Q-bomb.

The team arrives at incorrect coordinates in orbit of planet Ellora, in the middle of a battle between Alliance and alien spacefleets, and is forced to conduct an  orbital drop through the space debris. Ryle, Goss, Ford, and Dash go missing during the drop, and the remainder of the team comes under enemy fire almost immediately after landing, with Bleck being critically wounded. Elloran survivors rescue the team and, after verifying the team is free of alien infection (infected persons cannot talk), the survivors reveal the aliens have invaded the planet and the area is swarming with alien troops and infected humans. The survivors offer to treat Bleck at their outpost's medbay, and Ardene goes with them. Meanwhile, Braxton, accompanied by sniper Sol Cantos, proceeds to the downed alien ship. While analyzing the ship's radiation, Braxton's Icarus suit reports Ford as alive. He and Sol Cantos recover Ford, who experiences several visions of the aliens and Goss while concussed, and the three reach the Alliance outpost. At the outpost, Ardene views video log recordings that reveal the aliens are a hive mind that parasitically procreates by infecting victims, who then fall under the control of the hive mind.

Braxton gives the coordinates of the alien's home planet to Ardene, who reports the tachyon interference generated by the aliens means they cannot travel to the coordinates without first getting into orbit. Meanwhile, Ford consoles then mercy kills the mortally wounded Bleck. Dash is revealed to have survived and made his way to the outpost.

Ardene discovers the aliens have built a stabilized quantum space gate near Ellora that will allow the alien armada, currently in the Sigea galaxy{{efn|Stated in the film as "Segia Majora, 608,912 light years from Earth."}}, to invade the Milky Way in force. The survivors plan to collapse the gateway with the Q-bomb by firing it via the outpost's orbital cannon. While prepping the orbital cannon, Ardene receives a signal from Ryle, who has survived in orbit, albeit with his Icarus suit damaged and unfit for  reentry. He volunteers to position himself on the gateway and trigger his suit's self-destruct to close the gate after the Q-bomb passes through.

The aliens converge on the outpost and speak through an infected Goss, mocking Ford, preaching the superiority of "the Sigea"{{efn|This is the first time the aliens or their civilization are named.}}, and offering the chance for humankind's assimilation or death. After Dash replies with a simple "no," the Sigea begin their attack while Goss boards a Sigea ship. Ford latches onto the ship and later confronts the infected Goss as she prepares to cross via the completed space gate. With the orbital gun charged, Ardene loads the Q-bomb into a missile and fires it at the gate. Goss intercepts the Q-bomb missile in a stasis field, blows Ford into space, and crosses to join the assembled Sigea fleet, inadvertently releasing the bomb from the stasis field in the process.

Ryle positions himself on the space gate and, unable to trigger his suit's self-destruct, instead provides a target reference for the orbital gun. Ardene, with Braxton's reluctant blessing, fires the gun on Ryle's position, killing him and destroying the gate. The Q-bomb detonates on the other side of the collapsing gateway, the resulting black hole destroying the Sigea's fleet and home star system. Braxton, stricken with grief over his uncle's death, kills the Sigea's field commander on Ellora.

Back on Earth, seven days after first contact, Braxton, Ardene, Sol Cantos, Dash, and Ford morosely celebrate in a bar as the Alliance Senate proudly declares that the remaining Sigea have unconditionally surrendered. Ford takes a shot, sadly reminisces about Goss, and then abruptly leaves the bar.

