Bill Marks is a U.S. Air Marshal and ex-NYPD officer who boards a direct transatlantic flight from New York City to London. Marks sits next to Jen Summers in business class, who has switched seats so that she can sit by the window. After takeoff, Marks receives a text message on his secure phone stating that someone will die every 20 minutes unless $150 million is transferred to a specified bank account. Marks breaks protocol and consults the flight's other air marshal Jack Hammond, who dismisses the threat. Marks makes Summers and flight attendant Nancy to monitor the security cameras while texting the mysterious person in order to identify him.

When Marks catches Hammond on his phone nearing the 20-minute mark, he confronts him again. Hammond tries to bribe Marks which confirms his suspicions and attacks, forcing Marks to kill him exactly at the 20-minute mark. Marks finds cocaine in his briefcase and learns the perpetrator had blackmailed him and set him up for death. Marks alerts the TSA, but TSA Agent Marenick informs Marks that the bank account is registered in his name and accuses him of being the perpetrator. Captain David McMillan is apparently poisoned, but co-pilot First Officer Kyle Rice convinces Marks that he is innocent. Marks searches the resentful passengers, where one of them uploads a video in which Marks accuses and manhandles schoolteacher Tom Bowen, convincing the rest of the world that Marks is the perpetrator. 

Kyle is instructed by the TSA to divert to Iceland. Marks persuades programmer Zack White to write a computer virus to make the hijacker's phone ring. The phone rings in passenger Charles Wheeler's suit pocket, but he denies it is his. As Marks roughly questions him, Wheeler suddenly dies, foaming at the mouth. In the first-class lavatory, Marks discovers a hole drilled into the wall that offers a clear shot to the pilot's seat and discovers a dart in Wheeler's body. A passenger tells him that Summers entered the lavatory recently. Marks accuses Summers of being the hijacker. Summers becomes upset as she had stood by him and convinces him of her innocence. Two RAF Typhoon fighter jets meet the plane to escort it to a military base in Iceland.

Summers and Marks unlock the hijacker's phone, which unintentionally starts a 30-minute timer for a bomb. Through words in a television news report claiming that Marks is hijacking their flight, Marks realizes that the bomb bypassed the security checks, and finds it in Hammond's cocaine briefcase. When some passengers attack Marks, Bowen stops them, believing that the bomb is the priority. Marks convinces the others of his innocence and has them move the bomb to the rear and surround it with luggage to direct the blast outward, while everybody moves upfront. Marks urges Kyle to follow explosive protocol and descend from 30,000 to 8,000 feet as the current pressure differential will destroy the airplane if the bomb explodes, although the escorting jets refuse to let Kyle deviate from his course. 

Watching the earlier video, Marks notices Bowen planting the phone on Wheeler, implicating Bowen as the mastermind of the murders. White reveals himself as Bowen's accomplice. Bowen reveals that his father was killed in the September 11 attacks and blames the U.S. for not improving their security enough to prevent future similar attacks. Their goal was to frame Marks as a terrorist, thus ruining the reputation of the Air Marshals Service to force the U.S. to create stronger security laws. Marks persuades White (who was in it for the money) to try to disarm the bomb. Bowen, who wishes to die on the plane in a suicide mission, double-crosses White and shoots him. Kyle rapidly descends the aircraft to 8,000 feet, giving Marks the opportunity to kill Bowen. White regains consciousness and attacks Marks, but the bomb detonates, killing him and blowing open the back of the plane. Despite the damage, Rice barely lands the plane in Iceland with no loss of life. Marks is praised as a hero and exonerated, where it is also implied that he and Summers might begin a relationship.

