The film opens with a description of a legend told by survivors of being lost at sea: a presence, referred to as the Guardian, which pushed them to the surface, enabling them to survive until help arrived.

Ben Randall is the top rescue swimmer at the United States Coast Guard's Aviation Survival Technician (AST) program, but the long hours have destroyed his marriage. When on a rescue, Ben loses his team in a HH-60J Jayhawk helicopter crash at sea. While waiting in a survival raft, his best friend, Chief Petty Officer Carl Billings dies. Shaken by survivor guilt, Ben is transferred to become an instructor at the Coast Guard AST training school. He develops a legendary reputation among the students for his high number of rescues.

Jake Fischer is a hot-shot candidate for AST. Ranked as a top high school competitive swimmer with scholarships to every Ivy League college, Jake instead opts to enlist in the Coast Guard. During training, Jake meets local schoolteacher, Emily Thomas, and they begin a casual relationship.

The initial weeks of training end with most of the students dropping out and advanced instruction begins. Jake is late for class and Ben punishes his entire class for his tardiness. Believing Jake to be lazy and unmotivated, Ben tries to force him to quit. He gradually begins to see Jake's persistence and dedication.

Jake meets Emily in a bar and tells her about beating Ben's old records. The bartender, a friend of Ben's, tells Jake about a time when Ben injured himself saving every victim from a burning hospital ship full of invalid patients.

Later, a friend of Jake's fears failing school because he is unable to cope with panicked victims in the water. Jake takes him out for a drink at a Navy bar to cheer him up. They get in a fight and land in jail after being badly beaten by the Navy sailors, causing Jake to miss a date with Emily. He returns to base and takes the blame for the fight.

Chief AST Jack Skinner bails Jake out. Back on base, Ben and Jake get into a confrontation about their pasts. It is revealed that high school, Jake survived a car crash while on the way home with his teammates. The designated driver, although completely sober, he blames himself for the accident. They bond over the common experience of being the only survivor of fatal accidents. They return to the bar and fight the sailors again, this time winning.

At graduation, only a handful of candidates remain. Jake has emerged as a leader during training. Emily attends his graduation, but they end their relationship because Jake is leaving for an assignment at CG Air Station Kodiak, Alaska, Ben's previous post.

Ben and Jake are sent to rescue two kayakers trapped in a cave. Ben experiences flashbacks so Jake must guide him, but the rescue is eventually successful. Ben decides to retire after this. He tells Jake that the only record he kept track of was the 22 people he lost during his career. Ben apologizes to his wife and indicates he will not contest the divorce.

Jake is sent to rescue the crew of a sinking fishing trawler. During the rescue, he becomes trapped in the hold. His helicopter is forced to return to base, where Ben hears of the situation and decides to suit up and go rescue Jake personally. He frees Jake from the hull. As they are winched upwards towards the helicopter, their combined weight causes the winch cable to begin separating. Knowing it will break, Ben unclips himself so Jake can survive. Jake catches him, but Ben removes his glove and slips free, plummeting into the ocean. His body is never found.

Much later, Jake is on a rescue mission, when one of the survivors repeats the legend of the Guardian to him, which he connects to Ben. He then surprises Emily when she is teaching her class at school, telling her that he lied to her. "I can't do just 'casual,'" he says, referencing to an earlier conversation. She smiles as they embrace.

