Two high school students, Devon (Nikole Howell) and Jess Perkins (Savannah Matlow), have a crush on their teacher Ty Anderson (Bruce Kade), and they convince him to accept their friend requests on Facebook. Later, they report Anderson to Principal Wheatley (Art Roberts), saying that he made sexual comments to them on Facebook. Wheatley promptly fires Anderson, who snaps and kills Wheatley and his secretary Linda (Mindy Robinson) in furious response; he then overhears the girls discussing how they are going to a slumber party, so he decides to go there to take revenge on them for setting him up. Devon meets Jess and her sister Dee Dee (Simone Wasserman) at the party, along with their other friends Erin (Courtney Rood), Alex (Yasmine Soofi), Steph (Danika Galindo), and Laura (Lindsay Lamb). Nerds Max (Lonnie Alcide Gardner) and Joel (Nick Sinise) also arrive to spy on the girls.

Dee Dee has an argument with her boyfriend, Luke Dalton (Andrew Phillips), and goes to buy more beer. She is ambushed by Anderson, who impales her with a mailbox before killing another girl named Shelly (Kristyn Archibald). The girls discover Max and Joel and chase them away from the house before engaging in various party games. Anderson strangles a pizza delivery boy (Paul Tirado) when he arrives and hides his body in a trash barrel. When Max and Joel return, Joel passes out drunk in the garage while Anderson stabs Max in the throat with shears. Luke attempts to cheat on Dee Dee with Alex, but Anderson beats her to death with a radio after Luke leaves to mix drinks. Erin is drowned in a plastic tub while bobbing for apples, and Steph is hanged with a power cable in the garage.

Laura discovers Alex's body stuffed up the chimney before Anderson cuts her throat with an electric knife. He then reveals himself as the killer to Jess before knocking her out and killing Devon by shoving a curling iron down her throat. Luke discovers what Anderson has done and attacks him but is stabbed to death with a poker. Anderson leaves his mask in Luke's lifeless hand and flees the scene, framing him. The police arrive and assume Luke was the killer. Jess recovers and runs down the street and attempts to flag down a passing car, but gets run over in the process, but manages to  survive.<ref name="news"/>

