Scarlett Marlowe is a young scholar, continuing her dead father's search for the philosopher's stone, a legendary alchemical substance discovered by the alchemist Nicolas Flamel. The reputed stone is allegedly capable of turning base metals into gold or silver and granting eternal life. Scarlett discovers  the "Rose Key" artifact in a cave slated for demolition, but after she sees a vision of her father as a hanged man, the demolition begins and she narrowly escapes.

Scarlett travels to Paris. She enlists her former lover George and her cameraman Benji. Using codes from the key, they solve a riddle on Flamel's headstone and get coordinates pointing to the Catacombs of Paris. Scarlett tries to reach the location on an official tour, but it is off-limits. A stranger tells them a guide called Papillon will help them if they find him at a nearby club. Scarlett recruits Papillon, his girlfriend Souxie and his friend Zed.

Papillon takes the group to an off-limits entrance. George initially refuses to enter, but when a policeman confronts them, the group escapes into the caves. They encounter singing female cultists, including a woman they saw at the club (Representing condemned souls and angels of the First Vestibule of Hell). As the group crawls through a narrow tunnel, it collapses, trapping them and forcing them onward. The group finds a blocked tunnel, but Papillon explains people who go through that tunnel disappear. His friend La Taupe (i.e. "The Mole") is among the missing. He tries to take a different path, but the group somehow loops back to the blocked tunnel, and they decide to break through.

Inside, the group encounters La Taupe, a condemned ghost trapped within the purgatorial  catacombs. He tells them going further down is the only way out. They eventually find a tomb with a preserved Templar Knight, a mound of treasure, and the Flamel Stone. After they take the stone, attempting to take the treasure triggers a trap and collapses the room. La Taupe seems lost under the rubble.

Using the Flamel Stone, Scarlett is able to supernaturally  heal a wound on Souxie's arm. They find a drawing of a door on the ceiling along with a Gnostic Star of David, symbolizing "As above, so below", which reveals a hidden opening in the floor. Going through, they find a tunnel marked with the phrase "Abandon all hope, ye who enter here" in Greek, identical to the script on the entrance to Hell in Dante's Inferno.

On the other side of the tunnel, the group finds an upside-down reflection of the room they just left, where somehow La Taupe is waiting. He kills Souxie and disappears. Deeper in, the cultist from the club pushes Benji to his death. Papillon is then sucked into a burning car by an apparition of a man who looks just like the stranger who told Scarlett to find Papillon. The car implodes and buries Papillon in the floor. Scarlett, George, and Zed move on and see apparitions of terrifying spirits and demons. Statues in the wall come to life, and one rips open George's throat. Scarlett tries to heal the wound with the Flamel Stone, but cannot. She realizes she had stolen a false stone, and must return it to its original place to find the real stone and heal George.

Scarlett races back, finding the terrain is now flooded with blood and covered in biting faces. When she returns the stone, she sees a mirror and realizes the true power of the Flamel Stone is within her. As she returns to George and Zed, she sees the same hanged man that she saw in Iran, and recognizes him as her father. She apologizes for ignoring his phone call shortly before he committed suicide, and her father vanishes. Scarlett then returns to George, healing him with a kiss. 

Chased by demons, the three survivors are cornered in front of a dark hole. Scarlett explains that they must jump in and confess their past sins to escape alive. George confesses that he failed to save his brother from drowning, and Zed confesses that he has a bastard child he has refused to claim. They jump into the hole and miraculously survive. They find a manhole at the bottom, which delivers them right side up to the streets of Paris. Scarlett and George hold each other while Zed walks away, finally safe. 

In an ending log, Scarlett says that she never ventured to seek or obtain any material treasure, only the truth.

