Ten years after the twins discover the cursed bagua mirror in Joy Ramirez's old house, the new owner of the mirror is horrified after finding her dead husband lying on a stuffed tiger toy, his death corresponding to his birth on the year of the Tiger, as a result of the good luck from the cursed bagua. The owner is urged to escape their condominium unit by what turn out to be the spirits of her twin daughters, one of whom shot her sister and father before killing herself. She jumps off the terrace and lands on monkey bars, revealing her to have been born in the year of the Monkey.

Lester Añonuevo, a hustler living in a slum, breaks into a Taoist temple to take the bagua mirror, which has been stored for safekeeping by Hsui Liao from the condo, upon orders of Lotus Feet's niece, who wants to repatriate the mirror to China. Despite returning it to her, the mirror reappears at Lester's house which leads to a turnaround in his fortunes. He is able to repay his loan shark, Paulo, for his motorcycle before the latter, who had stared into the mirror hits his head against a hotdog cart and dies. He finds a wallet with a phone and an ATM card, which he redeems. His absentee father Robert then returns and they move into an affluent estate.<ref name="cruz1"/> Before he leaves the slum, Lester sees the ghost of Lotus Feet, the woman who cursed the bagua in her dying breath. Later that night, Lester's alcoholic mother Ruby<ref name="cruz1">{{cite news |last1=Cruz |first1=Oggs |title=[MMFF 2014]: 'Feng Shui 2' Review: Twice the tedium |url=https://r3.rappler.com/entertainment/movies/79284-mmff-2014-feng-shui-2-review-kris-aquino |access-date=April 2, 2021 |work=Rappler |date=December 29, 2014 |language=en}}</ref> dies after ingesting rat poison, revealing her to be born in the year of the Rat. This drives Lester to destroy the mirror. Joy, who is now a real estate agent, arrives for a transaction but leaves immediately when she sees the mirror, warning him not to accept any more good fortune. Upon returning to the door, he finds the mirror intact.

After Ruby's funeral, Jack, a loan shark whom Lester had crossed in the slum, breaks into Lester's house but encounters Robert. In the ensuing struggle Robert is stabbed to death, and Jack is killed with a fire extinguisher labeled "Red Rabbit." Lester realizes Robert and Jack were both born in the year of the Rabbit as Jack is wearing a shirt with a Playboy bunny logo in it. Joy, Lily (who owned the bagua mirror before Joy), and Hsui Liao go to Lester's house to talk about what happened after Lester stole the mirror. Hsui Liao realizes that the Bagua is haunting Lester as well as its previous living owners as it is about to complete collecting the souls of its 12 previous owners corresponding to their zodiac animal. Hsui Liao also realizes that when Lotus Feet's niece tried to pacify her aunt and died, her soul joined Lotus Feet in claiming a pair of victims, which explains the deaths of Robert and Jack, as well as Lester's companions in the slum, who were killed after being accused of Lester's earlier theft of the wallet and ATM. When they go to the front of the house, the find the mirror missing. They then go to Lily's house, where the latter finds the mirror but conceals it from them, hoping to recover her good fortune. They go to the house of Joy's boyfriend Douglas, who shoots and injures Lester after mistaking him for a burglar. Douglas proposes to Joy, but the latter refuses after realizing that he had looked at the bagua mirror.

Hsui Liao realizes that the only way to end Lotus Feet's curse is to destroy the bagua mirror in the temple and persuades Douglas to accompany him, Joy and Lester to the temple. Meanwhile, Lily and her housemaid are killed after pulling an electric cable connected to a dragon fountain which they mistake to be a buried piece of gold, revealing her to be born in the Year of the Dragon. As they approach the temple, Douglas gets into a fight with residents after an accident and is mauled, Hsui Liao inadvertently looks at the mirror during the scuffle and is stabbed to death, falling on a pile of chicharon to signify his being born on the Year of the Pig and Lester is beaten up and stabbed near some dog cages, signifying his being born in the Year of the Dog. Finally, Lester and Joy reach the temple and destroy the bagua mirror together. After destroying the mirror, Joy sees Lester lying dead at the door of the temple, revealing that it was his ghost who helped her break the mirror. She mourns as the police and Douglas arrive, to Joy shocked at surprise.

In the post credits scene, Lester's girlfriend Ellen uploads a photo of the bagua mirror sent by Lester for sale as her taxi suddenly encounters a truck with the words "Snake Island", indicating that she was born on the Year of the Snake.

