{{long plot|date=June 2016}}
In Rehobeth, Alabama, 1988, two girls trick an overweight boy, whom they nickname Loverboy, into dropping his pants and preparing for a kiss, only to tease and humiliate him. When one of the girls rides home alone later, Loverboy knocks her from her bicycle, then throws both her and the bicycle off a bridge.

In the present day, Kylie Atkins, a college student struggling to pay tuition, is recruited by entrepreneur Gary Preston into Girl House, his online pornography venture. Registered customers can watch the girls living inside the titular house through 24/7 camera feeds. The girls perform regular daily activities, with occasional stripteases or sexual acts for additional money. Gary assures Kylie that the house's actual location is untraceable. Kylie is introduced to security guards Steve and Big Mike, as well as fellow Girl House residents Kat, Devon, Janet, Heather, and Mia.

Kylie's first striptease captures the attention of Loverboy, a Girl House regular. Also watching are Alex and his college roommate Ben Stanley, who recognizes Kylie as his kindergarten crush. Former Girl House participant Anna, banned for her heroin addiction, returns to the house and begs Gary for another chance. Kylie has a private chat session with Loverboy, who surprises her with a picture of his face. Anna later finds the picture while snooping on Kylie's laptop. Ben pursues Kylie and they begin a relationship, which continues after he admits to knowing her involvement with Girl House. 

The women in Girl House are annoyed with Loverboy, who continually asks for Kylie, and start making fun of him. They put his picture with a handwritten caption that reads "What a stud" on the bulletin board. Kylie takes down the picture as soon as she sees it. 

Eventually, Loverboy snaps. He breaks into the place housing the website's server and kills the technical team. Gary is strapped to a chair and stabbed multiple times. Dying from blood loss, Gary is forced to watch Loverboy's rampage unfolding at the House. 

Loverboy kills Steve at the security gatehouse, then strangles Anna. From his dorm room, Alex watches in horror as Loverboy mutilates Devon's face with a small knife and chops off all her fingers with an axe. Alex alerts Ben, who calls 911 and tries to warn Kylie but in vain, as Loverboy jams incoming and outgoing communications. Ben instructs Alex to try locating Girl House's address.

An oblivious Kylie retires to her room. Meanwhile, Loverboy kills Heather and her boyfriend while they are having sex. Janet, who witnesses Loverboy severing the boyfriend's head, is chased down and thrown off an upstairs railing. She survives with broken legs. Loverboy locks Mia in the sauna room. She escapes to the pool outside, only to be killed with a sledgehammer. 

Kylie spots Loverboy at the pool from her window and realizes she is in danger. Janet unsuccessfully attacks Loverboy and gets stabbed in the head.

Kylie finds Kat and tries to hide in her bedroom. Loverboy breaks in and corners Kylie, who now recognizes him. Kat knocks Loverboy unconscious and goes for help while Kylie looks for Devon. Kat meets Big Mike at the front door, but Loverboy pursues and kills them both. Kylie finds Devon and tells her to stay in her bedroom while she searches for help. Distraught over her disfigurement, Devon suffocates herself with a plastic bag. Ben together with Kylie's friend Liz Owens finds the house's real address and races there.

Loverboy chases Kylie throughout the house. She shuts off all of the cameras. She then lures Loverboy to a darkened basement where she uses a video camera's night vision to help her stab him in the stomach with a pool stick. Injured, Loverboy overpowers and begins to strangle her, but she ends up clubbing him to death with the camera. 

As Alex watches on, he vows never to go into another online pornography site again and to seek therapy. Kylie runs outside the house, where Ben and Liz show up with the police and a news crew following behind. A traumatized Kylie tearfully begs Ben to stop the reporters from filming her, to which he complies. The film ends with Kylie breathing deeply and the screen cuts to black.

