During the Napoleonic Wars, Captain Jack Aubrey of frigate HMS ''Surprise'' is ordered to intercept the heavy frigate ''Acheron'', a French privateer. ''Acheron'' ambushes ''Surprise'' off the coast of Brazil, causing heavy damage while easily withstanding ''Surprise'''s return fire. Jolly boats are used to tow ''Surprise'' into a fog bank, ending the battle. Aubrey's officers tell him that ''Surprise'' is no match for ''Acheron'', and that they should abandon the chase. Aubrey responds that ''Acheron'' must not be allowed to plunder the British whaling fleet and orders ''Surprise'' refitted at sea, rather than a lengthy return to port for repairs. Shortly afterward, ''Acheron'' again ambushes ''Surprise'', but Aubrey slips away in the night by using a decoy raft and ship's lamps.

Following the privateer south, ''Surprise'' rounds Cape Horn and heads to the Galápagos Islands, where the whaling fleet is concentrated. The ship's surgeon, Stephen Maturin, is interested in the islands' unique flora and fauna, and Aubrey promises his friend several days' exploration time. However, when ''Surprise'' reaches the Galápagos, they recover the survivors of a whaling ship, ''Albatross'', burned by ''Acheron''. Aubrey hastily pursues the privateer, dashing Maturin's expectation of more time to explore.

''Surprise'' is becalmed for several days. The crew becomes restless and disorderly, and superstition begins to take hold among them. Midshipman Hollom, already unpopular with the crew, is named a "Jonah" by the sailors (someone who brings bad luck to a ship). As the tension rises, crew member Nagle deliberately bumps shoulders with Hollom as he passes him on the deck and is flogged for insubordination. That night, Hollom commits suicide by jumping overboard with a cannonball; Aubrey holds a service for Hollom the next morning. The wind picks up again, and ''Surprise'' resumes the chase.

The next day, Royal Marine officer Captain Howard attempts to shoot an  albatross but accidentally hits Maturin instead. The surgeon's mate informs Aubrey that unless the bullet and a piece of cloth it took with it are removed soon, they will fester. He also recommends the delicate operation be performed on land. Aubrey returns to the Galápagos, where Maturin performs surgery on himself using a mirror. Finally giving up the pursuit of the privateer, Aubrey grants Maturin the chance to explore the Galápagos Islands and gather specimens before they head for home. While looking for a species of flightless cormorant, the doctor discovers ''Acheron'' on the other side of the island. Maturin abandons most of his specimens and hurries to warn Aubrey. 

''Surprise'' readies for battle once more. Due to ''Acheron''{{'}}s stronger hull, the crew recognizes that they must be extremely close for their guns to have an effect. After observing the camouflage ability of one of Maturin's specimens, Aubrey disguises ''Surprise'' as a whaling ship; he hopes the French will be lured in to capture the valuable ship rather than destroy it. ''Acheron'' falls for the disguise, and ''Surprise'' launches her attack. With the back wheels of the cannons taken off, the cannons are angled upward and fire upon ''Acheron''{{'}}s mainmast while Captain Howard's Marine sharpshooters pick off the crew of ''Acheron'' from above. ''Acheron'' is disabled when the mainmast snaps and falls into the sea. Aubrey leads boarding parties, engaging in fierce hand-to-hand combat. Upon capturing the ship, Aubrey is informed by the ship's doctor, Le Vigny, that the French captain is dead and is given the Captain's sword.

''Acheron'' and ''Surprise'' are repaired and ''Surprise'' remains in the Galápagos. Lieutenant Pullings is promoted to captain and ordered to sail the captured ''Acheron'' to Valparaíso. As ''Acheron'' sails away, Maturin mentions that Le Vigny had died months ago. Realising that the French captain deceived him, Aubrey gives the order to change course to intercept ''Acheron'' and escort her to Valparaíso, and for the crew to assume battle stations. Maturin is again denied the chance to explore the Galápagos, but Aubrey wryly notes that since the bird he seeks is flightless, "it's not going anywhere." The two then play ''Musica notturna delle strade di Madrid'' by Luigi Boccherini as ''Surprise'' turns in pursuit of ''Acheron'' once more.

