Over a year after the events of the second film, Juni Cortez has retired from the OSS and now lives quietly, working as a private detective, though on a minuscule salary, and constantly refuses to return to the OSS. One day, he is contacted by President Devlin, the former head of the OSS, who informs him that his sister, Carmen Cortez, is missing after a mission gone wrong, forcing him to return.

Arriving at the technological and computer department of OSS, Juni is reunited with a now reformed Donnagon Giggles and his wife Francesca, who explain that Carmen was captured by the Toymaker, a former OSS informant who was imprisoned in cyberspace but has since created ''Game Over'', a virtual reality-based video game which he intends on using to permanently take control of children's minds. Juni agrees to venture into the game, save Carmen, and shut it down, with only twelve hours to win. He is also informed that his sister was last seen on Level 4.

In the game, Juni finds the challenges difficult, having only nine lives and already losing one at the start. While roaming a cartoon-like medieval village, he finds three beta-testers, Francis, Arnold, and Rez, who provide him with passage to the Moon and launch him into space, but mostly to eliminate the competition.

Juni lands hard on the Moon, consequently losing another life, and receives an opportunity to bring in an ally for assistance. He chooses his grandfather Valentin, who uses a wheelchair and has a personal history with the Toymaker. Valentin receives a power-up that gives him a robotic bodysuit, allowing him to walk and possess superhuman strength and durability. Distracted by a butterfly, he abandons Juni, telling him they will regroup later. Searching for the entrance to Level 2, Juni ventures into a robot battle arena where he fights a girl named Demetra to return to Earth and Level 2. In the fight, he receives a more powerful robotic suit and is placed on a huge mecha to combat Demetra. In the 3-round fight, in which he loses another life, he defeats her, and he is allowed to keep his power suit.

He meets the beta-testers again who believe that he is a character named "The Guy", who can supposedly beat the allegedly "un-winnable" Level 5. Rez is unconvinced and challenges Juni to a "Mega-race" involving a multitude of vehicles, which will allow them onto Level 3. The only apparent rule of this game is "win at any cost." Juni wins the race with help from Valentin, and Demetra joins them; she and Juni display romantic feelings, with him giving her a med-pack with extra lives and her providing him with an illegal map of the game. Upon entering Level 3, Arnold and Juni are forced to battle, the loser getting an immediate game over. During the fight, Juni loses almost all of his lives, but Demetra swaps places with him and is defeated, seemingly getting a game over, upsetting Juni.

The group arrives at Level 4, where Juni finds Carmen, released by the Toymaker, who leads the group. Carmen notices their grandfather is with them and tells Juni the Toymaker is the reason their grandfather uses a wheelchair. Juni follows a map to a lava-filled gorge, and the group surfs their way through it. The OSS finds out about the history between the Toymaker and Valentin. Fearing that Valentin might seek revenge, Donnagon attempts to prevent them from reaching Level 5 but fails. They fall into the lava and discover it is harmless, and they reach a cavern where they find the door to Level 5. Carmen asks how much time is remaining, and Juni informs the group that they only have 5 minutes. After the other gamers start to think that Carmen and Juni are deceivers and Rez threatens to give Juni a game over, the real Guy appears, gives the group a pep talk, zaps the door open and walks in, arrogantly thinking it was easy. However, as part of a booby trap set by the Toymaker, he is struck by lightning, which causes him to collapse, and his life count to rapidly drop from 99 to .5. After the Guy nervously says "Oops", his life count drops to 0, giving him a permanent Game Over, forcing the group to move on without him.

In the Level 5 zone, a purple cyberspace, Demetra appears, claiming to have re-entered the game via a glitch, but Carmen identifies her as "The Deceiver," a program used to mislead players. Demetra confirms this and apologizes to a stunned Juni before the Toymaker attacks them with giant robots. Valentin appears, holding the entrance back to the real world open so the group can escape. Demetra, shedding a tear, quickly holds the door open so he can go with them. Upon return, though, it is revealed that Valentin had released the Toymaker with the villain's robot army now attacking the city.

Juni and Carmen summon their family members: parents Gregorio and Ingrid, Gregorio's brother Isador "Machete" Cortez, their grandmother, and Uncle Felix. With too many robots to handle, Juni calls out for everyone to help, summoning Fegan Floop, his assistant Minion, the robot children, Dinky Winks and his son, Romero and a spork, as well as Gary and Gerti Giggles. All of the robots are destroyed except for the Toymaker's. Valentin confronts The Toymaker about his actions and forgives him for what he did, which Valentin had been trying to do for 30 years. The Toymaker shuts down his robot and joins the rest of the Cortez family and their friends in celebrating their families.

