In ancient China, a warlord unites the country's kingdoms into an empire, becoming the Dragon Emperor. He leads a civil war to become the founder of the Qin dynasty, with his men burning existing books and scrolls. He later orders the construction of the Great Wall of China, and buries his enemies' corpses beneath it. He learns to control fire, water, earth, wood, and metal—the traditional Chinese Wuxing elements.

However, growing fearful that his death will end all he has accomplished, the Emperor summons sorceress Zi Yuan. He sends her to a monastery with his second-in-command, General Ming, to find the long-lost Oracle Bones, which hold the key to eternal life. She and Ming fall in love, despite the Emperor wanting Zi Yuan to himself. When one of his servants witnesses them consummating their relationship, the Emperor has Ming executed in retaliation. However, Zi Yuan anticipated this: instead of giving him the type of immortality he wanted, Yuan cursed the Emperor and his soldiers, thus turning them into the Terracotta Army.

Centuries later, in 1946, Alex O'Connell, Rick and Evelyn O'Connell's son, and his archaeology professor Roger Wilson find the Emperor's tomb. Though attacked by a mysterious woman, they bring the sarcophagus to Shanghai. Meanwhile, the British government entrusts Rick and Evelyn to take a gemstone called the ''Eye of Shangri-La'' back to China.

In Shanghai during the Chinese New Year, the O'Connells learn that Wilson works for a rogue military faction led by General Yang and his assistant, Colonel Choi, who provided the financial backing of Alex's expedition. Yang believes the Emperor can lead China out of the chaos following World War II and the Chinese Civil War, resurrecting him using the ''Eye of Shangri-La'', which contains mystical water from Shangri-La.

Revived, the Emperor accepts Yang's services but kills Wilson. The O'Connells attempt to stop him with Lin's help, the woman who earlier attacked Alex, but he escapes. Lin reveals that she possesses the only weapon that can kill the Emperor—a cursed dagger.

Along with Evelyn's brother, Jonathan Carnahan, the O'Connells and Lin travel to a stupa in the Himalayas that will reveal the path to Shangri-La. With help from yetis summoned by Lin, the group holds off Yang's forces, but the Emperor discovers Shangri-La's location. The Emperor gravely wounds Rick while Alex triggers an avalanche, slowing the Emperor's pursuit. Lin takes them to Shangri-La, where Zi Yuan still lives and can heal Rick's wound. Lin is actually Yuan's daughter, both rendered immortal by the mystical waters. As Rick heals, Alex and Lin grow close, but Lin cannot bear falling in love with Alex only to watch him grow old and die.

The Emperor and Yang arrive, and the Emperor bathes in the waters, restoring his human form and granting him supernatural power. Morphing into a three-headed dragon, he steals the dagger, kidnaps Lin, and flies back to his tomb. He revives the Terracotta Army, declares his intention for world domination, and directs them to breach the Great Wall, after which they will be invincible.

The O'Connells and Zi Yuan pursue the Emperor to the Great Wall, where Yuan, using the Oracle Bones, sacrifices her and Lin's immortality to raise an undead army of the Emperor's enemies, led by a revived General Ming. As the two undead armies clash, Alex rescues Lin. Yuan fights the Emperor and steals the dagger from him before he mortally wounds her. While dying, she gives the blade to Rick and Alex.

The Emperor retreats into the Great Wall, where Alex and Rick confront him while Evelyn and Lin fight Yang and Choi. During the fight, Lin throws Yang into rotating gears. Choi tries to save Yang but both are crushed to death. Meanwhile, Rick and Alex overpower the Emperor and stab him with the dagger, defeating him and destroying the Terracotta Army. Ming and his army celebrate before entering the afterlife.

The O'Connells and Lin return to Shanghai, where Alex and Lin start a relationship. Jonathan moves to Peru with the ''Eye of Shangri-La'', intending to live somewhere with no mummies, not knowing that mummies will soon be discovered there.

