Sailor Pietro and his rat-companion Roscuro dock in the French kingdom of Dor — famous around the world for its delicious soups — during the "Royal Soup Day." The kingdom’s cook, Andre, makes good soup with the aid of Boldo, a genie made of food who lives in his pot. Roscuro sneaks into the royal banquet-hall and falls into Queen Rosemary's soup, scaring her so much that she has a heart attack and dies. Roscuro discovers that Pietro flees and falls into the castle dungeons. Discovering that Pietro was forced to leave without him on their ship, he is taken in by Botticelli Remorso — leader of the large rat population — but struggles to accustom to their bellicose culture. Devastated over his wife's death, King Philip forbids the consumption all things related to soup and declares rats "illegal". This also bans Andre from making soup and Boldo stops appearing. Without its soup, Dor gradually becomes impoverished and dreary and the king's daughter, Princess Pea, laments over the sad state of the kingdom and how her father's grief-based reclusive behavior shuts her and the world out.

In a mouse village within an abandoned kitchen storage room, Despereaux is born into the Tilling family. The newborn Despereaux is immediately noted by his family for his large ears, as well as having been born neither blind nor crying. As he grows up, it is clear he is different from other mice: he is brave and curious rather than timid, unnerving other mice around him. In an effort to teach him to be a "proper mouse," his brother Furlough takes him to the royal library to show him how to chew books, but Despereaux is more interested in reading them, becoming fascinated by their stories. One day, Despereaux encounters and converses with Pea, promising to finish the story about a trapped princess and tell her how it ends. Upon discovering Despereaux has violated mouse law by talking to a human, his parents Lester and Antoinette turn him over to the mouse council to avoid blame.

The council banishes Despereaux for the crime of having courage. The "threadmaster", a blind mouse named Hovis, lowers Despereaux into the dungeons using a red thread, where he is presumed dead by the rest of the mice. In the dungeons, Despereaux meets and tells the princess story to the jailor, Gregory, who stops listening and leaves him alone. Despereaux is captured by the rats and thrown into their arena with a tabby cat. As Despereaux is about to be eaten, Roscuro saves his life by asking Botticelli to give Despereaux to him under the pretense to eat, appearing to relent to the sewer rat dogma. Having been unable to adjust to being a sewer rat, Roscuro is desperate to hear about the outside world. The two become friends, as every day Despereaux tells him the stories of the princess and her sadness. Wishing to make amends for the trouble he has caused, Roscuro sneaks into Pea's room and tries to apologize to her, but she lashes out at him, and guards come after him. Hurt by this, Roscuro vows revenge. He enlists the help of Miggery "Mig" Sow, Pea's young, hard-of-hearing maid who longs to be a princess herself, by convincing her she can take Pea's place if she kidnaps her. After Mig drags Pea to the dungeons, Roscuro double-crosses her and locks her in a cell.

Meanwhile, Despereaux discovers the princess is in danger and tries to tell the King who is too depressed to listen. Despereaux tries to get help elsewhere; he returns to the mouse village and tries to enlist his family, but they are afraid of his presence — as he had fallen in flour and they mistake him for returning as a ghost — so he rings the town's bell to prove his survival, but still no one comes to his aid. Andre, having had enough of the law, gets back to making soup, which brings back Boldo. Despereaux tries to get help from Andre and Boldo to limited success. As Andre is distracted by a rainy thunderstorm outside (which was caused by the smell of the soup being released into the sky), Boldo agrees and takes Despereaux back to the dungeons. On route, they are attacked by rats; Boldo sacrifices himself to allow Despereaux to reach the arena.

In the arena, Roscuro sees the apologetic sincerity in Pea's eyes and regrets his actions, but an enraged Botticelli signals the rats to eat Pea. Despereaux releases the cat to chase some of the rats away, and fights the others off. Botticelli captures Despereaux, but the rain clouds part and sunlight reflects off of a lost heart-shaped locket into the dungeon, stunning the photophobic sewer rats. Roscuro saves Despereaux by using one of the arena's spotlights to direct the sunlight at Botticelli, sending him falling into the arena, where the cat chases him into its cage and Pea shuts the both of them in with her feet, leaving Botticelli to be eaten as the rest of the sewer rats flee into the shadows.

In the aftermath, Mig is reunited with Gregory, who turns out to be her long-lost father, and they go back to their farm together. Meanwhile, the King overcomes his grief and allows soup and rats back into the kingdom; it stops raining and the sun rises over Dor; Roscuro returns to his life at sea; and Despereaux departs on a journey to see the world.

