ACP Karan has declared that he will eliminate all gangsters from Mumbai within two months. Gangster Kabir Bhai decides to eliminate Karan instead. In comes Vijju, a hitman who refuses to acknowledge that he is ageing, returning to Mumbai after a long exile in Paris, France, in order to perform one last job. While the gangsters and Vijju try to take down Karan, Karan is trying to woo his old college friend Tanya, and Tanya's friend Amrita is trying to figure out the relationship between Vijju and her mother, as she presumes that they must've had an affair many years ago, due to her mother's overly friendly nature to Vijju. Vijju later reveals that he is not the contract killer and is rather trying to protect his son, ACP Karan. Vijju was a gangster and his rowdyism ultimately leds to him and Sita, his wife get separated and he became separated from his son, Karan and Karan also had no idea about his father as his mother never told him. He also reveals that he didn't have an affair with Amrita's mother. Meanwhile, Vijju meets his estranged wife, Sita, but fails to patch the relationship, while Karan finally succeeds in winning over Tanya and her conservative father. Tedha attempts once again and is successful in pumping some bullets into Karan, failing Vijju's attempts to stop him from going to the place of the shootout. A hurt and angry Vijju then admits Karan to a hospital and visits Kabir's den. After reciting a short story and explaining three morals, Vijju informs that Karan is alive and that the den is surrounded by police, by accusing Tedha of being an undercover officer. A fierce shootout ensues in which Vijju kills all the confused gangsters at the den except Kabir and his aide Mac, who roped in Vijju to the underworld don. Tedha is killed by Kabir, who thinks he was lying. A surprised Kabir realises that Vijju is Karan's father, and that Tedha wasn't an undercover officer. He is shot in the head by Vijju, but Vijju spares Mac. At the hospital, Vijju, finally acknowledging that he is ageing, finally reconciles with his wife and asks her to decide whether he should reveal his identity to Karan. However, she forbids him from doing so, and he decides to go back to Paris, telling his wife Sita to bring Karan along when she is ready to do so.

