A young woman named Babydoll is committed to a hospital for the mentally insane. This was initiated by her stepfather, in an attempt to gain everything in the will left by her recently deceased mother after discovering she had left it all to her daughters. Prior to this, the stepfather had murdered the girls' mother and sexually abused them both. He bribes asylum orderly Blue Jones to forge psychiatrist Vera Gorski's signature to have Babydoll lobotomized. Babydoll takes note of four items she would need to escape.

Babydoll slips into a fantasy world in which she has newly arrived at a brothel owned by Blue, who in this world is a mobster, where she and the other patients are sex slaves. Babydoll befriends four other patients: Amber, Blondie, Rocket, and Rocket's sister and "star of the show", Sweet Pea. Dr. Gorski is the girls' dance instructor. Blue informs Babydoll her virginity will be sold to a client known as the High Roller, who is actually the doctor scheduled to perform her lobotomy. Gorski has Babydoll perform an erotic dance, during which Babydoll fantasizes she is in feudal Japan, meeting the Wise Man. The Wise Man presents Babydoll with weapons and tells her that she needs four items to escape: a map, fire, a knife and a key; other than the named items, there is also a fifth unrevealed item that only she can find, which would require "a deep sacrifice" and bring a "perfect victory". She fights three samurai giants, then finds herself back in the brothel having impressed Blue and other onlookers.

Babydoll convinces the four girls to join her preparations to escape, planning to use her dances as a distraction while the other girls obtain the necessary tools. During her dances, she fantasizes adventures that mirror the escape efforts. These adventures include infiltrating a bunker protected by World War I German soldiers to gain a map (mirrored by Sweet Pea copying a map of the brothel/institution from Blue's office), storming an Orc-infested castle to retrieve two fire-producing crystals (mirrored by Amber stealing a lighter from the mayor's pocket), and fighting robotic guards on board a train to disarm a bomb (mirrored by Sweet Pea stealing a kitchen knife from the Cook's belt). During the last fantasy, Rocket sacrifices herself to guarantee Sweet Pea's escape from the bomb's blast, paralleled by the Cook fatally stabbing Rocket as she tries to protect her sister.

Blue overhears Blondie relaying Babydoll's plan to Gorski. He locks Sweet Pea in a closet and confronts the other girls. He fatally shoots Amber and Blondie, and attempts to rape Babydoll, but she stabs him with the kitchen knife and steals his master key. Babydoll frees Sweet Pea and starts a fire to keep the orderlies occupied while they seek an exit. A throng of men blocks their way. Babydoll deduces that the fifth item she needs is actually her own sacrifice, and that this is actually Sweet Pea's story. Babydoll distracts the men long enough to allow Sweet Pea to slip away.

Back in the asylum, the surgeon has just performed Babydoll's lobotomy. Gorski notes that during her short stay, the girl stabbed an orderly, started a fire, and helped another girl escape the asylum. The surgeon asks Gorski why she authorized the procedure, and Gorski realizes that Blue has been forging her signature and summons the police, who apprehend Blue just as he attempts to rape Babydoll. As he is being arrested, Blue also incriminates the stepfather. Babydoll is shown smiling serenely.

Sweet Pea is stopped by police as she tries to board a bus, but the bus driver (the Wise Man) misleads the police and lets her board.

