When James Reid, publisher of the ''Daily Sentinel'', dies, his estranged son Britt takes over the newspaper and fires most of the staff. Britt later rehires Kato, a mechanic skilled in martial arts, as his assistant and the two become friends. Britt convinces Kato they should become crime-fighters. Kato develops an Imperial car, outfitted with several gadgets and weapons, which they call the "Black Beauty". Britt plans to capture Benjamin Chudnofsky, a Russian mobster who intends to unite the crime families of Los Angeles under his command. To get Chudnofsky's attention, Britt uses the ''Daily Sentinel'' to publish articles about his alter ego, dubbed "The Green Hornet".

Britt and Kato blow up several of Chudnofsky's meth labs, leaving calling cards behind. District Attorney Frank Scanlon frets over public perception that he cannot stop the Hornet. Britt asks his researcher Lenore out, but she invites Kato instead, making Britt jealous. Kato learns from her that mobsters often offer a peace summit to rivals in order to get close enough to kill them; Britt then tells Kato that Chudnofsky has offered them such a meeting. Kato tries dissuading him, but Britt ignores him. Once there, Chudnofsky tries to kill them, but Kato manages to save them and escape. Upon returning to the mansion, Britt and Kato start arguing. In a fit of rage, Britt fires both Kato and Lenore.

Britt discovers that Scanlon is corrupt and an ally of Chudnofsky. Kato arrives, with Chudnofsky and some of his men outside waiting for the "Hornet" to kill Britt. After Britt apologizes to Kato, he accepts and saves him. Chudnofsky and his men storm the restaurant and attempt to murder the duo who escape in another Black Beauty. Chudnofsky, Scanlon, and their men chase Britt and Kato throughout L.A., ending in a fight at the ''Daily Sentinel'' office. Kato and the Green Hornet end up victorious.

Britt and Kato hide out at Lenore's house, where she learns their alter egos. The next morning, Britt promotes Axford to chief editor and pretends to get shot by Kato posing as the Green Hornet, solidifying the "Green Hornet" as a vigilante and allowing Britt to get treated in a hospital.

