Recently widowed Berlin-based American aviation engineer Kyle Pratt takes her husband David's body back to the United States with her 6-year-old daughter Julia, aboard an aircraft she helped design, a brand new Elgin E-474 (loosely based on the Airbus A380 with the aircraft's classification number being similar to the Boeing 747) operated by Aalto Airlines. Awakening from a nap, Kyle finds Julia is gone, and none of the passengers or crew recall seeing her. Flight attendant Stephanie tells Kyle there is no record of her daughter boarding the flight, and Kyle is unable to find Julia's boarding pass and backpack. At a panicked Kyle's insistence, Captain Marcus Rich conducts a search of the aircraft, while sky marshal Gene Carson monitors her. Kyle accuses two Arab passengers of stalking her daughter the night before, resulting in a fight breaking out and Kyle being handcuffed.

Kyle reveals that her husband died falling from the roof of an avionic manufacturing building, which she doubts was suicide. Captain Rich receives a message from a Berlin hospital that Julia died with her father, and is convinced that Kyle, unhinged by her husband's and daughter's deaths, imagined bringing Julia on board. The increasingly erratic Kyle is confined to her seat, where a therapist, Lisa, consoles her. Kyle doubts her own sanity until she notices the heart Julia drew in the condensation on the window next to her seat.

Kyle asks to use the bathroom, where she climbs into the overhead crawl space and sabotages the aircraft's electronics. In the ensuing chaos, she rides a dumbwaiter to the lower freight deck and unlocks David's casket, suspecting Julia to be inside, but finds only her husband's body. Carson escorts her to her seat in handcuffs, and explains that the flight is making an emergency stopover at Goose Bay Airport, in the Canadian province of Newfoundland and Labrador, where she will be taken into custody.

She pleads with Carson to search the aircraft's hold, and he sneaks down to the freight deck. Removing two explosives and a detonator concealed in David's casket, he plants the explosives in the avionics section. It is revealed that Carson and Stephanie have conspired to hijack the aircraft for a $50 million ransom and frame Kyle; they abducted Julia to induce Kyle to unlock the casket. Carson lies to Rich that Kyle is threatening to bomb the aircraft unless the ransom is wired to a bank account and a G3 aircraft is readied upon landing. He then plans to detonate the explosives, killing Julia, and leave Kyle dead with the detonator in her hand.

Landing in Newfoundland, the airliner is surrounded by FBI agents as the passengers exit the aircraft. Kyle confronts Rich, who angrily declares that the ransom has been paid. Realizing that Carson is the perpetrator, she quickly assumes the role of hijacker, commanding Carson to remain aboard and the crew to leave. After the plane's door closes, she strikes Carson unconscious with a fire extinguisher, handcuffs him to a rail, and takes the detonator from his pocket. Carson quickly regains consciousness, frees himself and pursues Kyle, who locks herself in the cockpit, but she manages to draw Carson away by throwing a binder out a hatch door to the upper level as a ruse so she can escape. After an altercation with Kyle, a guilt-ridden Stephanie flees the airliner in a panic.

Kyle finds the unconscious Julia but Carson arrives, revealing that he murdered David in order to smuggle the explosives inside his casket and gagged and dumped Julia into the food bin, believing that neither the passengers nor the crew would care enough to notice. Kyle escapes with Julia into the aircraft's non-combustible hold as Carson shoots at her. She detonates the explosives, killing Carson and damaging the aircraft's landing gear, but she and Julia emerge unscathed as the crew realize she had been telling the truth all along. The next morning, in the passenger waiting section of the airport, Captain Rich apologizes to a seated Kyle holding Julia in her arms as Stephanie is led away by FBI agents for her crimes, while another agent informs them that the Berlin mortuary director has also been arrested, adding that they are tracking down another accomplice who erased Julia's record from the boarding list. Kyle silently redeems herself by carrying Julia through the crowd of passengers who realize the truth. As one of the Arab passengers assists Kyle in loading her luggage onto a waiting van, Julia awakens and sleepily asks "Are we there yet?" as they drive away.

