Jonathan Rivers is an architect, married to his wife Anna, a best-selling author. The couple have a young son from Jonathan's previous marriage, and Anna is newly pregnant. One evening, Anna fails to arrive home and becomes missing for five weeks without explanation.

Soon after Anna's disappearance, Jonathan is contacted by Raymond Price, whose son has died. Raymond explains he has received frequent communication from his son and other spirits via electronic voice phenomena (EVP), claiming to also have recorded voice messages from Anna and suggests she is dead. Jonathan is initially dismissive and angered, yet he later learns of his wife's tragic drowning. The news reports the incident as an accidental death. 

Jonathan encounters numerous instances of what he interprets as Anna attempting to contact him. Desperate, he visits Raymond to inquire more on EVP. During this visit, Jonathan is befriended by Sarah Tate, a woman who has also come to Raymond for his EVP work because her fiancé has recently died.

Jonathan captures a recorded voice and believes it is indeed his wife's and becomes obsessed with trying to contact her himself. He soon encounters other voices — angry, aggressive, vulgar, and threatening.

Raymond is found inexplicably dead. Jonathan and Sarah begin to review Raymond's EVP logs.
Jonathan seeks advice from a psychic and is warned that, while she takes measures to avoid hostile entities, EVP is an indiscriminate process that offers no such safeguards. She cautions Jonathan's pursuance of EVP, comparing it to the potential dangers of using a Ouija board to invoke spirits. 

Jonathan begins to be followed by three demons attracted by his obsession with EVP. He finds some of the EVP messages he receives are from people who are not yet dead but may soon be. Jonathan hears EVP cries from a woman whom he rushes to find in a wrecked car with an infant child. He is able to save the child but not the woman. At that woman's funeral, which Jonathan and Sarah both attend, Jonathan approaches the husband and attempts to explain how he came to know of the accident, beginning to discuss EVP. The man thanks Jonathan for saving his son but then demands to be left alone.

Afterward, while working with his EVP devices, Jonathan sees images of another person, a recently missing woman named Mary Freeman. Sarah is later seriously injured by a fall from a high-rise balcony while possessed by the demons, an incident which was foreshadowed by Sarah's image being among those on the EVP devices.

Following signs he finds on EVP recordings, Jonathan locates the site where he believes the missing Mary Freeman is being kept. He contacts police to report his suspicion and insists they come to the location right away. Jonathan finds elaborate EVP deciphering electronic equipment on site. A construction workman from Jonathan's company, who has been doing his own EVP work, is found to be holding Mary captive. He is under the control of the three demons, doing their evil bidding, and as the demons preside over this conversation, the workman confesses he has been instructed to kill Mary, insinuating he did the same with Anna. As the three demons watch, Jonathan attempts to save Mary, but the demons intervene, torturing Jonathan by breaking his arms & legs and cause him to fall to his death. A police SWAT team arrives on scene and are able to save Mary by shooting the workman dead.

Leaving Jonathan's funeral, his ex-wife & son hear Jonathan's voice coming from the car radio through static interference saying, "I'm sorry, Mikey," to his son, who recognizes the voice and smiles. Sarah, in a wheelchair at Jonathan's graveside, is menaced by odd noises in the wind.

Just before film credits roll, the camera flashes to a screen where the image of Jonathan and his wife is visible in white noise static. A closing intertitle reads, "Of the many thousands of documented EVP messages, approximately 1 in 12 have been overtly threatening in nature..."

