The Viking village of Berk is frequently attacked by dragons, which steal livestock and endanger the villagers. Hiccup, the son of the village chieftain, Stoick the Vast, is deemed too weak to fight the dragons. Instead, he creates mechanical devices under his apprenticeship with Gobber, the village blacksmith, though Hiccup's inventions often backfire. Hiccup uses a bolas launcher to shoot down a Night Fury, a rare and dangerous dragon, but cannot bring himself to kill the creature and sets him free.

Before leaving with his fleet to find and destroy the dragons' nest, Stoick enters Hiccup in a dragon-fighting class taught by Gobber with fellow teenagers Fishlegs, Snotlout, twins Ruffnut and Tuffnut, and Astrid, on whom Hiccup has a crush. Failing in training, Hiccup returns to the forest and finds the Night Fury trapped in a cove, unable to fly because Hiccup's bolas tore off half his tail fin. Hiccup gradually befriends the dragon, naming him 'Toothless' after his retractable teeth, and designs a harness and prosthetic fin allowing Toothless to fly with Hiccup riding him.

Learning dragon behavior from Toothless, Hiccup is able to subdue the captive dragons during training, earning admiration from his peers but suspicion from Astrid. Stoick's fleet returns home unsuccessful, though he is gladdened by Hiccup's unexpected success in dragon training. Hiccup is judged the winner of his training class and must kill a dragon for his final exam. He tries to run away with Toothless, but Astrid ambushes him in the forest and discovers the dragon. Hiccup takes Astrid for a sunset flight to demonstrate that Toothless is friendly, but Toothless is hypnotically drawn to the dragons' nest. There, a gargantuan dragon named the Red Death summons the smaller dragons to feed itself live food to avoid being eaten themselves. Realizing the dragons have been forced to attack Berk to survive, Astrid wishes to tell the village, but Hiccup advises against it to protect Toothless.

In his final exam, Hiccup faces a captive Monstrous Nightmare dragon and tries to subdue him to prove that dragons can be peaceful. When Stoick inadvertently angers the dragon into attacking, Toothless escapes the cove to protect Hiccup but is captured by the Vikings. Stoick is furious and, after Hiccup accidentally reveals that Toothless knows the location of the dragons' nest, Stoick ignores his son's warnings about the Red Death and disowns him, setting off for the nest with Toothless chained to the lead ship as a guide. Hiccup is devastated, but Astrid prompts him to realize that he spared Toothless out of compassion, not weakness. Regaining his confidence, Hiccup shows Astrid and their friends how to befriend the training dragons, and they set out after Toothless.

Stoick and his Vikings locate and break open the dragon's nest, awakening the Red Death, which soon overwhelms them. Hiccup, Astrid, and their friends fly in on the training dragons, distracting the Red Death. Hiccup attempts to free Toothless from the damaged ship; the two nearly drown, but Stoick rescues them, reconciling with his son. Toothless and Hiccup soar into the clouds, followed by the Red Death, and damage its wings before luring it into a dive and firing a fireball down its throat, killing it. Whilst escaping the explosion, Hiccup gets knocked off Toothless, unconscious, by the Red Death's tail and Toothless chases after him. When the Vikings find Toothless, Hiccup is nowhere to be seen. The Vikings found that Toothless shielded Hiccup from the explosion, though he lost his lower left leg in the process.

After falling into a coma, Hiccup awakes three weeks later and finds that Gobber has fashioned him a prosthetic, and he is now admired by his village, including Astrid, who kisses him. Berk begins a new era of humans and dragons living in harmony.

