In 1989, Jack Toretto participates in a late model race on a short track, with his sons Dominic and Jakob working in the pit crew. Dom argues with rival racer Kenny Linder about his dirty tactics. During the race, Linder's car clips Jack's bumper, causing his car to crash and burn, killing him. A week after, Dom is arrested for beating Linder to near death. While serving his sentence, he recalls that Jakob had worked on their father's car the day he died and concludes that Jakob killed their father. Upon release, Dom confronts and challenges Jakob to a race, forcing him to leave town when he loses.

Thirty years later, Dom is retired and raising his son Brian with his wife, Letty Ortiz. Roman Pearce, Tej Parker, and Ramsey arrive with news that, shortly after arresting cyberterrorist Cipher,{{efn|Introduced in ''The Fate of the Furious'' (2017)}} Mr. Nobody's plane was attacked by rogue agents, who abducted Cipher and crashed in Montequinto, a fictional Central American country. Dom agrees to help them after realizing Jakob is involved. Searching the plane, they find part of a device named Project Aries, which can hack into any computer weapons system. The team is ambushed by a private army led by Jakob, who steals the device. Michael Stasiak helps Dom's crew escape to their safe house at the Caspian Sea, and Dom's sister Mia arrives to help. The team learns that Han Lue is connected to Project Aries, and Letty and Mia go to Tokyo to investigate.

Meanwhile, Jakob meets with Otto, his associate and financier. Cipher, who is being held at their base, tells Jakob that the other half of Aries is in Edinburgh. Dom meets his father's mechanic, Buddy, who took Jakob in after his exile, and learns that Jakob is in London. In Tokyo, Letty and Mia find Han alive, along with his ward, Elle. Roman and Tej travel to Germany to recruit Sean Boswell, Twinkie, and Earl, who have been working on a "rocket car". In London, Dom meets Queenie Shaw, who gives him Jakob's location. Dom confronts Otto and Jakob at a party held at Otto's mansion; Otto has Dom arrested, but Leysa, an old friend of Dom's, rescues him. Tej, Roman, and Ramsey join Dom in Edinburgh, where Jakob is using an electromagnet to steal the other half of the Project Aries device. Tej and Roman find the truck containing the electromagnet; as they fight Otto's men, Ramsey commandeers the truck to chase after Otto. Dom intercepts Jakob and the two fight throughout the city. Before Otto can extract Jakob, Ramsey runs his car off the road and uses the electromagnet to capture Jakob.

At the safe house, Han reveals that he was assigned by Mr. Nobody to protect Elle and Project Aries, as Elle's DNA is its biometric activation key. When Jakob went rogue and teamed up with Otto, they used Deckard Shaw to fake Han's death{{efn|As depicted in ''The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift'' (2006), ''Fast & Furious 6'' (2013), and ''Furious 7'' (2015)}} and protect Elle. Otto and his men attack the safehouse and free Jakob, who reveals to Dom that their father, wanting to escape deep debt, had instructed Jakob to tamper with his car to throw the race. Jakob and Otto kidnap Elle and take the other half of the Project Aries device. Otto launches a satellite into orbit, while Jakob has Elle activate Aries. They begin uploading Aries to the satellite, moving throughout Tbilisi in an armored truck.

Dom, Letty, Mia, Ramsey, and Han race to stop the upload. As Mia and Han try to breach the truck, Otto reveals he and Cipher have teamed up, and throws Jakob off the truck. Jakob is rescued by Dom and Mia, and helps them access the truck. Using the rocket car, Tej and Roman enter orbit and destroy the satellite, stopping the upload. Cipher bombs the truck using a UAV in an attempt to kill Dom, but unintentionally kills Otto. Dom uses the ricocheting truck to destroy Cipher's drone, which is revealed to be simulated, and she escapes. Dom and Mia reconcile with Jakob, and Dom allows him to escape custody by giving him the keys to his car, finally forgiving Jakob for his role in the death of their father. Tej and Roman reach the International Space Station and are safely returned to Earth. The team celebrates their success with a barbecue at Dom's house. While preparing to say grace, Brian O'Conner's car arrives in the driveway.

In a mid-credits scene, Deckard comes face-to-face with Han.

