''Free City'' is a massively multiplayer online role-playing video game (MMORPG) developed by Soonami Studios. The players of ''Free City'' are distinguished from the non-player characters (NPCs) by the sunglasses they wear, and usually spend their time fighting each other and causing mayhem. Unaware that the world they live in is a video game, the NPCs are mostly oblivious to the chaos caused by the players while living out their scripted lives, including Guy, who works as a bank teller at Free City's bank with his best friend Buddy, a security guard. Unemployed software developer Millie Rusk is playing ''Free City'' to find proof that Soonami stole the source code from the concept game she developed, ''Life Itself,'' which included novel artificial intelligence techniques for its NPCs. Her friend Walter "Keys" McKey is sympathetic, but reluctant to help, as he now works in technical support at Soonami.

After Millie's avatar "MolotovGirl" catches Guy's attention by singing his favorite song "Fantasy", he begins to deviate from his programming, shocking Buddy by accidentally shooting a skull-masked player robbing the bank and leaving with his sunglasses. Believing Guy to be a hacker disguised as an NPC, Keys and his coworker Mouser unsuccessfully try to ban him from the game. Accessing the players' view of the game, Guy visits new areas and meets Millie at Revenjamin Buttons' stash house, where they attempt to steal evidence leading to her source code. Believing Guy to be a novice player, she advises him to level up before trying again. Guy rapidly progresses through the game by completing missions benevolently, standing out from other players and becoming a worldwide sensation known as "Blue Shirt Guy" while Soonami's CEO Antwan Hovachelik has the artists "roid up" his design for the sequel ''Free City 2.''

As Keys eventually realizes that Guy truly is an NPC, other NPCs that Guy interacts with also begin to develop self-awareness. Keys learns that ''Free City 2'' is due to release in 48 hours and will completely replace ''Free City,'' terminating all of the game's NPCs. He informs Millie, and she tells Guy the truth about his existence, but he becomes distraught and breaks off contact. Guy talks with Buddy and realizes that there is something more to their existence, and they went to get the evidence Millie wanted from Revenjamin Buttons. Antwan sees that the popularity of Blue Shirt Guy threatens his plans to launch ''Free City 2'' and orders a server reboot, which resets Guy's memories. Guy regains his self-awareness when Millie kisses him.

Guy recalls the location of an island containing remnants of the ''Life Itself'' source code and they attempt to reach the island before the ''Free City 2'' launch wipes all old content from the servers. Antwan fires Keys, has every player removed from ''Free City,'' and sends an unfinished Guy-resembling character named Dude into the game. Initially overwhelmed, Guy then puts his sunglasses on Dude, distracting him and allowing Guy to proceed to the island. In a last-ditch attempt to stop him, Antwan begins smashing the game servers in the Soonami offices with a fire axe, erasing Buddy and much of the game world, while firing Mouser. Before he can destroy the final server, Millie offers a deal to abandon her lawsuit and surrender the profits of the ''Free City'' franchise to him in exchange for her creation.

Sometime later, sales for ''Free City 2'' have slipped because of bugs in the code and lagging online play. An embattled Antwan is in the crosshairs, but claims he is a victim. Meanwhile, Millie salvages her code and, along with Keys and Mouser, releases the indie game ''Free Life,'' which includes Guy, Dude, and the other NPCs from ''Free City.'' In the game, Guy reveals to Millie that his code is, in fact, a love letter to her from Keys. During the development of ''Life Itself,'' Keys had encoded what he knew about her tastes into an AI routine in the game, which was eventually incorporated into ''Free City,'' explaining why Guy felt uniquely drawn to MolotovGirl. After Millie leaves the game, she and Keys share a kiss. Meanwhile, Guy and Dude reunite with Buddy, who was reconstructed.

