In 1985 Mexico City, Heinrich Treadway tries to escape the authorities and a man, Bathurst. He and his associates, Abel and Leona speak about "the Egg", which Treadway stole from Bathurst. Treadway tells Abel that if he does not survive, the latter must remember to "look inside". He drives off a bridge, jumping from his car in mid-air and onto a crane 150 feet away. However, Treadway watches helplessly as Bathurst arrives and kills Abel and Leona.

In 2020 New York City, Evan McCauley suffers from schizophrenia. Because of past institutionalization and violent behavior, he cannot get a job. Needing meds, he forges a katana for a local gangster, even though he was never trained as a bladesmith. After the deal goes south, Evan makes his escape but is later arrested. A man at the police station introduces himself as Bathurst, and claims they have known each other for centuries.

Nora Brightman bursts into the room, and helps Evan escape. She explains that about 500 individuals, known as the Infinites, can remember all their past lives. They're divided between two groups:  the Believers, including Nora, who want to make the world better, and the Nihilists, including Bathurst, who want to exterminate all life on Earth. The Nihilists have developed weapons to prevent people from being reborn, and trap their souls inside computer chips, and they developed an egg shaped weapon that will destroy all life on Earth, although Evan (Treadway's reincarnation) stole and hid the egg during his past life.

Nora (Leona's reincarnation) explains that most Infinites remember their past lives around puberty, which is why Evan was diagnosed schizophrenic. But Evan struggles to regain Treadway's memories, as a result of trauma endured from accidents earlier in life. However, another Infinite named the Artisan has a machine that restores Evan's memories.

He hid the egg inside his past body, shortly before Bathurst killed him.

Bathurst overhears this, gets Evan's old body, and finds the egg. But before he can detonate it, the Believers get the egg back, trap Bathurst's soul inside a computer chip, and free the souls of all their comrades whom Bathurst had trapped in computer chips, including Abel's. Although Evan and Nora die in the process.

Years later, Nora and Abel are reborn and they meet at the Beginning. Evan is reborn in Jakarta, Indonesia. Artisan, now older, visits him and offers a katana to the younger Evan, who regains his memories upon recognizing him.

