Siddharth is an IIT graduated civil engineer running a successful building firm, while his lookalike, Aditya, is a gambling thief who deceives people along with his sidekick, Vema. Siddharth is in love with Mahima, while Gayathri loves Aditya, unaware of his real identity. One day, Aditya tries to help Vema pay his debt by extracting money from Gayathri through lies, but she helps him in spite of knowing the truth. After taking the money, Aditya is enraged, and so is Siddharth after a party. That night, one of them breaks into a house and attacks the owner, Akash, stabbing him to death.

The next day, Aditya frees Vema by paying his debt and wins Gayathri's trust by returning her money and telling her the truth. As the investigation of Akash's murder proceeds, a selfie clicked by a couple nearby is found with either Siddharth or Aditya in it. Both of them are brought in and interrogated without knowledge of the other's presence. CI Nagendra, who shares an old rivalry with Siddharth, tortures him. Siddharth's alibi is that his car broke down, and as his car doesn't have the repair kit, he called a taxi driver to help him. Sub-inspector Yamini handles Aditya, who on the other hand, cites various laws to escape torture. She reaches out to Akash's friend and shows him the photograph of Siddharth/Aditya, but he refuses to recognize him. She also questions Vema and orders him not to leave the city without permission, but he secretly escapes.

Yamini then learns of the rivalry between Siddharth and Nagendra; Siddharth helped Nagendra's daughter elope with her lover against her father's wishes. The forensic expert informs Yamini about a hair sample recovered from the crime scene and how it doesn't match anyone else in Akash's home. At the police station, Siddharth tries to escape but is interrupted by Aditya. The two violently fight, hurting everyone and vandalizing the station in the process.

Aditya and Siddharth are revealed to be identical twins after their DNA is found to be the same, and both confess their pasts: The twins parted ways in their childhood when their parents divorced. Aditya lived with his mother, who developed a gambling addiction to cope with her grief and anger over her difficult family and marital life, but wouldn't refuse anyone who asked for help. One day, Aditya's mother promised to give up gambling, but instead committed suicide. Aditya was then taken in by his father, who showed no love to him. As a result, he ended up developing the gambling addiction. One day, his father spotted him gambling and took him by force, whe got into a fight with him and Siddarth.  The twins then spent one year in a mental development institution due to anger management issues.

Later, Aditya became interested in studying law but eventually left school due to his lack of college ethics. The duo separated once their dad died. Recently, when Aditya came home one day and left in front of Siddharth, his ring for Mahima went missing. Siddharth reported his brother to the police, who beat him up. Aditya himself told Siddharth where the ring was, causing Siddharth to realize his mistake. Aditya had actually come home for a photo of their mother, and vowed to seek revenge.

Nagendra still wants to frame Siddharth for Akash's murder, but the taxi driver who helped Siddharth confirms he was really stuck on the night of the murder. It is also proved that Aditya paid Vema's debt with gambling money he won after playing all night. The court acquits both Aditya and Siddharth in order to protect the innocent one from punishment. Nagendra voluntarily retires without getting his revenge. A disappointed Yamini later calls Akash's friend to inquire about a girl he was infatuated with, and is shocked to learn it was Mahima. Siddharth is finally revealed to have murdered Akash for drugging, kidnapping and raping Mahima to death out of a childhood lust. Akash had also bribed the police to avoid charges. When Aditya found out about the murder, he helped Siddharth by getting arrested as well to throw off the police.

Later, Aditya meets with Siddharth and explains how Yamini can't reopen the case since she created a fake witness to help Siddharth and could get herself arrested, having been suspended once for doing this. Siddharth gives Aditya a photograph of them with their mother and says he is going to Mumbai, and later to Copenhagen, never to return. Having sold all of his property in India, Siddharth gives a 50% share to Aditya as a tribute. After his marriage to Gayathri, Aditya realizes his lack of trust in his mother, coupled with her family's, prompted her to kill herself. He promises to do better with his wife.

Seven months later, some of the investigating officers agree to appear in a documentary about the murder. One of the officers calls the case unprecedented, before a filmmaker tells him that similar cases occurred in other countries as well.

