Intelligence officer Amanda Waller assembles two Task Force X teams, colloquially known as the "Suicide Squad," which comprise Belle Reve penitentiary inmates who agree to carry out a mission in exchange for shortened sentences. Neither team is aware of the other's existence. Sent to the South American island nation of Corto Maltese after an anti-American regime overthrows its government, the teams are tasked with destroying the Nazi-era laboratory Jötunheim, which houses the secret experiment "Project Starfish." The Corto Maltese military almost entirely wipes out one team upon landing, but team leader Colonel Rick Flag and Harley Quinn survive. The ambush on the first team serves as a diversion, allowing the second team to enter the country undetected. Led by assassin Bloodsport, who Waller blackmailed in exchange to drop the court trial of his estranged daughter Tyla, the team also consists of Peacemaker, King Shark, Polka-Dot Man, and Ratcatcher 2.

Waller orders the squad to find Flag, who escaped from the military but was captured by rebel soldiers. The team finds the rebel base and massacres the soldiers, only to learn that rebellion leader Sol Soria had saved Flag. Despite the group's actions, Soria agrees to help them infiltrate the capital, where they capture Project Starfish's lead scientist, the Thinker. Harley is captured by the Corto Maltese government and taken to the new dictator, Silvio Luna, who wishes to marry her. After learning of Luna's plans to use Project Starfish on political dissidents, Harley kills him and escapes. She joins the others, who use the Thinker to break into Jötunheim and begin rigging it with explosives.

Flag and Ratcatcher 2 enter the Project Starfish laboratory with the Thinker and find Starro the Conqueror, a giant starfish-like alien that creates smaller versions of himself to kill people and control their bodies. The Thinker explains that Starro was brought to Earth by the U.S. government, which has secretly funded the experiments for decades using Corto Maltese citizens as test subjects. An enraged Flag decides to leak a hard drive containing evidence of this but is killed by Peacemaker, who is under orders from Waller to cover up the U.S.'s involvement. Meanwhile, a skirmish between the rest of the team and the military leads to Polka-Dot Man accidentally setting off the explosives prematurely. As Jötunheim crumbles, the drive falls into Ratcatcher 2's possession. Peacemaker attempts to execute her for knowing the truth about Starro, but Bloodsport shoots him and takes the drive.

Starro escapes the destroyed Jötunheim, brutally kills the Thinker and much of the military, and begins taking control of the island's population. Waller tells the squad that their mission is complete and orders them to leave, but Bloodsport decides to lead the team in fighting Starro. Waller attempts to execute them for this, but her subordinates knock her out. After Starro kills Polka-Dot Man, Harley pierces a hole in its eye, allowing Ratcatcher 2 to summon the city's rats to chew Starro to death from the inside. With the military diverted, Soria takes control of the government and pledges democratic elections. Bloodsport forces Waller to release him and the surviving squad members and drop Tyla's charges in exchange for keeping the contents of the drive confidential, and they are airlifted out of Corto Maltese.

In a mid-credits scene, it is revealed that Weasel, one of the first team's members who was believed to be dead after drowning during the team's airdrop, is still alive, having survived drowning. In a post-credits scene, Waller punishes her subordinates by assigning them to a new mission with Peacemaker, who is recovering in a hospital.

