In Aleppo, Syria, a team of US Navy SEALs, including Senior Chief Petty Officer John Kelly, rescue a CIA operative taken hostage by a suspected pro-Assad paramilitary group. The situation escalates as the SEALs discover that the captors are actually Russian military, which CIA officer Robert Ritter denies. Three months later, in apparent retaliation for their role in the mission, several members of the team are covertly killed by Russian FSB operatives. Kelly's pregnant wife Pam is murdered when the Russians break into their house. Kelly kills all but one of the attackers before being rushed to the hospital with near-fatal wounds.

Meanwhile, in Washington, D.C., Kelly's SEAL team leader and friend, Lt. Commander Karen Greer, meets with Ritter and Secretary of Defense Thomas Clay to discuss how the FSB discovered the SEALs' identities and review their response options. Leaked news of Russia's unprecedented attack on American soil has caused the already-strained relationship between the two nations to sour further, possibly causing a new cold war. The CIA refuses to conduct an investigation into the murders, motivating Greer to pass confidential information to Kelly.

Healed from his injuries, Kelly tracks down the Russian diplomat who issued the passports to the FSB operatives, and forces him to give up the name of the surviving assassin before killing him. Incarcerated for murder, Kelly bargains his way out by revealing the escaped operative is Victor Rykov, an ex-Spetznaz officer who is hiding in Murmansk, Russia. Despite Greer's objections, Clay allows Kelly to participate in Rykov's capture on the condition that Kelly serves his sentence after the mission.

Kelly flies to Murmansk with Greer and a CIA black ops team, planning to HALO jump into Russia. Intercepted and attacked by a Russian fighter, their plane crashes into the Barents Sea. Kelly dives into the wreckage to recover essential equipment, including a zodiac boat. The team arrives in Murmansk and finds Ritter, whom Kelly suspects is to blame for the intelligence leaks. Ritter swears he is not responsible and leads the team to Rykov. Kelly goes off mission to confront Rykov, finding him wearing a suicide vest and learns that he is a deep cover CIA asset. Rykov detonates his vest, killing himself as the team becomes pinned down by sniper fire. As police arrive, the team realizes that the mission was a set-up to have American soldiers killed on Russian soil to start a war.

Kelly volunteers to cover the team's escape; since he is a convicted murderer, his death could be plausibly denied. Kelly buys the team time to reach safety but is badly injured. He then uses an explosion as cover to steal a police uniform and hijacks an ambulance to escape. Kelly and the surviving team members leave the country by boat. Ritter officially reports Kelly as dead, allowing Kelly to hunt for the traitor.

Back in D.C., Kelly confronts Clay and forces him into his car. After Kelly threatens Clay's family, he confesses to being behind the intelligence leaks and orchestrating the conflict between the U.S. and Russia, intending to start a war with Russia to boost the economy and unite the American people against a common enemy. Kelly drives the car over a bridge and lets it sink to the bottom of the Potomac River, drowning Clay. Kelly escapes with a recording of the confession, with the help of Greer, who was waiting in the river with diving gear. At Washington Union Station, Greer gives Kelly a new identity provided by Ritter, he leaves to begin his new life as "John Clark".

One year later, Clark meets with Ritter, newly promoted to deputy director, and proposes the creation of a multinational counter-terrorism team, codename: Rainbow.{{efn|i.e. the team from ''Rainbow Six''.}}

