During the Clone Wars,{{efn|name=attack|Which began after the events of ''Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones'' (2002).}} Galactic Republic forces find themselves stranded across the Outer Rim as the Separatists gain control of more hyperspace lanes. Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker leads Republic forces against Count Dooku's Separatist army on Christophsis with his master Obi-Wan Kenobi and clone captain Rex.{{efn|name=tcwTV|Also depicted in ''The Clone Wars'' (2008) episodes "Cat and Mouse" and "The Hidden Enemy".}} However, the clone army is soon overwhelmed by the Separatists. As the Republic waits for reinforcements, a young Jedi named Ahsoka Tano, who was sent by Grand Master Yoda to become Anakin's padawan, arrives while the Separatist commander Loathsom activates an energy field. Anakin works together with Ahsoka and Obi-Wan to destroy the energy field.

Meanwhile, Dooku, looking to secure a partnership with the Hutts, has kidnapped Rotta, the son of Jabba the Hutt. Obi-Wan negotiates with Jabba, promising the safe return of his son, while Anakin leads a clone army to the planet of Teth to rescue Rotta, who is being held inside a monastery. He and Ahsoka rescue Rotta, who is falling ill, as they discover that Dooku has led the two Jedi into a trap; Dooku has staged the kidnapping himself in order for the Hutts to blacklist the Jedi and allowing the Separatists to gain the support of the Hutts.

While Anakin and Ahsoka escape the monastery with Rotta and R2-D2, the assassin Asajj Ventress, who had earlier neutralized a group of bounty hunters Jabba sent to retrieve his son, obtains footage of Anakin expressing his distaste with the Hutts, which is shown to Jabba. Obi-Wan arrives at the Teth monastery and duels briefly with Ventress. Meanwhile, Padmé Amidala goes to Coruscant to confront Jabba's uncle Ziro, who she finds out has conspired with Dooku to engineer the downfall of his nephew, Jabba, which would allow him to seize power over the Hutt clans. However, Padmé is soon discovered and detained, but with the help of C-3PO, is broken out, with Ziro soon arrested.

Anakin and Ahsoka, who had now gained the respect of one another, travel to Tatooine to return Rotta to his father. However, their ship comes under fire from Separatist forces and crash-lands far away from Jabba's palace. On his way to Jabba's palace, Anakin is intercepted by Dooku. They engage in a lightsaber duel; Dooku realizes that Anakin does not have Rotta on him. Anakin had been carrying a backpack filled with rocks to deceive Dooku as Ahsoka delivers Rotta, who is unharmed, to Jabba. However, Jabba orders their execution. Padmé tells Jabba of his uncle's duplicity, and he reassures her that the Hutt Clan will punish Ziro harshly. A treaty is signed that allows Republic forces to pass through Jabba's territory.

