Liza and her son Jude are attacked in their home late at night, after Liza hears noises downstairs which she investigates. She is then grabbed by two masked men and suffers a head wound. Liza and Jude are left traumatized by the event. Later, she is plagued by nightmares while Jude remains traumatized even after therapy, and is left communicating through a notepad. Liza's husband, Sean, suggests they relocate to the countryside to recuperate. The family move to a manor, unaware of its dark history.

Arriving at the manor house, they explore the property, and Jude finds a porcelain doll buried in the ground. Liza and Sean explore a nearby mansion. Realizing that Jude is missing, Liza searches for him and finds him in possession of the doll. Encouraged by Jude's connection to it, Liza cleans off "Brahms," making the doll look new.

The next day, Liza and Jude take a walk around the property at Jude's request. They meet Joseph, the property caretaker, and his dog. Tensions fray when Sean urges Liza to talk about the events of the burglary, and she will not. Back in the house, Liza and Sean overhear Jude talking in his room. They ask if he is talking to Brahms and Jude writes 'yes' in his notepad. Weird events occur around the house, and Sean and Liza discuss a change in Jude's behaviour with their therapist.

Joseph talks to Jude about his dog being missing, but no one appears to have seen the dog. Liza finds disturbing pictures, and assumes they have been drawn by Jude. Later that evening, the family has dinner and Jude writes in his notepad that Brahms' plate is missing. Liza, upset about earlier, says that Brahms does not eat because he is a doll. She and Sean argue in the kitchen and Sean leaves the room. She goes to sit with Jude at the table and tells him that he needs to stay at the table until he eats. He writes on his notepad that she is making Brahms mad. She leaves the dining room and hears a loud noise. She and Sean run into the room, finding the dining room table and chairs overturned. Jude, scared, writes that he told Liza not to make Brahms mad. Arguing about Brahms and Jude, Sean and Liza disagree about the mysterious things that are happening.

Jude leaves for the nearby mansion with Brahms in hand, leaving a note that reads 'You should have followed the rules'. Joseph finds Sean and Liza in the mansion and tells them briefly about a family that had lived there prior. He says that a boy named Brahms had lived there; he had killed two people, and did not leave the mansion for 30 years.

Shortly after, Sean's brother and his family come to visit. Will, Jude's cousin, gets mysteriously injured during the visit. Liza becomes even more upset, and later hits Joseph on the head, then begs to know where Jude is. Joseph tells her that it will be over soon and that "Brahms and Jude are gonna be one". She goes to look for Jude in the mansion.

Sean finds Liza and Jude in the basement and hits Brahms with a croquet mallet, revealing a demonic, rotting area under his face. Joseph then starts to get scared and says that "It will never be over" and that Brahms will take out the family's failure to "follow the rules" on him. A furnace then explodes, killing Joseph but leaving the family unharmed. Jude grabs Brahms, and throws him into the fire.

Liza, Sean and Jude are soon back at their home in the city, and everything seems normal. However, when he is left alone in his room, Jude walks over to his dresser and puts on a porcelain mask. He wishes Brahms a good night, and says that everything will be fine if his family follows the rules.

