Walter and Danny are two brothers who do not get along with each other or with their teenage sister, Lisa. While their divorced father is away at work and Lisa, whom he left in charge, is napping, Danny discovers an old science fiction–themed board game called ''Zathura'' in the basement. When he starts playing, the game produces a card that warns of a meteor shower. After an actual meteor shower occurs in the living room, Walter and Danny realize the game is affecting reality.

The boys discover the house is floating in outer space. Lisa thinks she has overslept because of the dark sky and is preparing to go out; however, the next card puts her in cryonic sleep, leaving her frozen solid. Walter and Danny learned that they must finish the game to get back home and return everything to normal. 

As they continue to play, Walter and Danny overcome the dangers presented by the game, including the appearance of a defective robot, passing too close to a star, and an attack on the house by a race of reptilian aliens called Zorgons. One of Danny's turns causes an astronaut to appear, who methodically eliminates the house's heat sources, as the Zorgons are attracted to heat. The astronaut lures the Zorgons' ship away by setting the boys' couch on fire and ejecting it from the house, allowing them to follow it.

Walter demands that the astronaut leave, but Danny chooses to let him stay. Growing increasingly agitated, Walter accuses Danny of cheating by moving his piece prematurely; when he tries to move the piece back and takes his next turn, the game reacts as if Walter were cheating and ejects him from the house, but the astronaut rescues him. 

Danny apologizes to Walter, but he does not forgive him. On Walter's next turn, he receives a card that allows him to make a wish, resulting in another heated argument between the boys. The astronaut warns Walter not to make a wish out of anger. Fearing the worst, the astronaut discovers that Walter merely wished for an autographed American football. The brothers questioned the astronaut and he explained his origins, revealing that he and his own younger brother had played the game before. He landed on the wish card, but after an escalating fight, he wished his brother was never born. This resulted in him being stranded, as he was unable to finish the game without the second player. Upon hearing this, Danny and Walter finally put their differences aside.

Lisa awakens from her stasis and, still oblivious to the situation, turns up the heat. The Zorgons return and anchor their ships to the house. She finally discovers the predicament and the quartet hides, only to realize that they left the game behind. Danny finds the game aboard one of the Zorgon ships but is spotted by the Zorgons. Walter uses a "Reprogram" card he drew earlier to fix the robot, which attacks the Zorgons instead, causing them to retreat.

Walter receives another wish card, and he uses it to bring the astronaut's brother back into existence. The astronaut reveals he is actually an older version of Walter from an alternate timeline and commends his past self for making a better choice than he did. The astronaut and the alternate Danny merge with their counterparts as the timeline changes.

The Zorgons return to the house with a massive fleet to destroy it. When Danny finally wins the game, it is revealed that Zathura is a black hole, which proceeds to consume the Zorgons' fleet and the house. The siblings find themselves back in the house as it was before the brothers started the game, just as their father returns home. The brothers finally bond, and they promise to each other and Lisa to not tell anyone about the game and their adventure.

