In San Francisco, genetics chemist Will Rodman is testing the viral-based drug ALZ-112 on chimpanzees at the biotechnology company Gen-Sys to find a cure for Alzheimer's disease. ALZ-112 is given to various chimpanzees including a chimp named Bright Eyes, which greatly increases her intelligence. However, during Will's presentation of the drug, Bright Eyes is forced from her cage, goes on a rampage, and is shot to death. Will's boss Steven Jacobs terminates the project and has the chimpanzees euthanized. However, Will's assistant Robert Franklin reveals that the reason for Bright Eyes' rampage was that she had recently given birth. Will reluctantly takes in the infant chimpanzee, eventually giving him the name Caesar. Discovering that Caesar has inherited his mother's intelligence through being exposed to ALZ-112, Will decides to raise him. Three years pass, Caesar becomes highly intelligent and able to communicate through sign language. Will begins a romantic relationship with veterinarian, Caroline Aranha. Will and Caroline introduce Caesar to the redwood forest at Muir Woods National Monument so he can roam. Meanwhile, Will treats his father, Charles, with ALZ-112, which seems to restore his cognitive ability.

Five years later, a grown Caesar questions his origins and place in the world, and Will reveals his origins. Charles' condition returns as his immune system becomes resistant to ALZ-112 and deteriorates further. One day, Caesar attacks and injures Douglas Hunsiker, Will's bad-tempered next-door neighbor, who was berating a confused Charles for touching his car. As a result, animal control arrives and takes him to an ape shelter. Caesar is tormented by the alpha chimpanzee, Rocket, and the chief guard, Dodge Landon. However, Caesar befriends Maurice, a former circus orangutan who also knows sign language. Caesar learns to unlock his cage, gaining free access to the common area. With the assistance of Buck, a gorilla, Caesar becomes alpha. Meanwhile, Jacobs clears the development of a more powerful gaseous version of the drug, the ALZ-113, when Will tells him it can improve intelligence. Will takes the drug home for his father, but Charles declines further treatment and dies overnight. After attempting to test the drug on a bonobo named Koba, Franklin accidentally becomes exposed to ALZ-113 and becomes ill (due to Koba intentionally ripping his mask off). Despite the risks, Jacobs orders continued trials and as a result, Will quits his position.

Attempting to warn Will at his home that he is infected, Franklin sneezes blood onto Hunsiker and is later discovered dead. Will attempts to reclaim Caesar, but Caesar instead decides to stay with the apes and steals the ALZ-113 canisters from Will's house which he uses to enhance the intelligence of the other apes in the shelter. When Dodge attempts to get him back into his cage, Caesar reveals he can speak; he fights with Dodge while freeing the apes, inadvertently killing him. The apes flee, releasing Koba and the captive apes from Gen-Sys, and freeing additional apes from the San Francisco Zoo. A battle ensues as the apes fight their way past a police blockade on the Golden Gate Bridge in an attempt to escape into the redwood forest. A helicopter gunship arrives, and Buck sacrifices himself to bring down the helicopter and rescue Caesar. Koba pushes the helicopter, with Jacobs still inside, into the sea.

As the apes find their way into the forest, Will finds and warns Caesar that the humans will hunt them, begging him to return home; however, Caesar hugs him and says he is home. Will accepts Caesar's wishes and the apes embrace their new lifestyle in the forest.

Meanwhile, Hunsiker, now infected with ALZ-113, arrives at San Francisco International Airport for his flight. He eventually spreads the virus across the planet, leading to a deadly pandemic.

