Ngoc Minh Quan, a widower and Vietnam Veteran, operates a London Chinese restaurant with his associate and friend Lam. His adult daughter and college student Fan loses her life in a terrorist bomb attack, leaving him  grief-stricken and thirsty for revenge. An Irish republican group dubbing itself the "Authentic IRA" claims responsibility and gives UK authorities a previously used IRA code word . Quan visits Scotland Yard daily, wanting the names of the bombers. Commander Richard Bromley sympathetically tells Quan that he is hindering rather than helping the investigation. Bromley further advises Quan to excercise patience and strongly cautions him against contacting IRA affiliates. Undeterred, Quan takes the law into his own hands, zeroing in on Northern Ireland deputy First Minister and Sinn Féin advisor Liam Hennessy, a retired Provisional IRA leader who claims to have renounced violence. Purchasing items to make homemade weapons, Quan travels to Belfast, leaving the restaurant in Lam's hands.

Quan first phones and then visits Hennessy at his office, but both times the minister denies knowing the perpetrators. Not believing him, Quan sets off a makeshift bomb in Hennessy's place of work before depositing an unarmed explosive in Hennessy's car as warnings. Hennessy orders Jim Kavanagh, his second-in-command, and the rest of his men to locate Quan, take him out of town, and “discourage” him from coming back. Pressured by the British state and hoping to shore up his administration ahead of the Northern Irish Assembly elections, Hennessy tries to identify the culprits with help from his former IRA comrades. He orders all IRA weapons dumps to be searched for missing Semtex. Hennessy's bodyguards find Quan’s guesthouse but he beats them back and escapes. Quan later observes Hennessy with his mistress Maggie and photographs them kissing in a restaurant.

Quan then follows Hennessy to his farmhouse, hides in the nearby forest, and uses additional explosives to attack it. As Hennessy's henchmen scour the woods for him, Quan maims 3 of them with traps. When he tries to interrogate one, Quan is shot in the shoulder by Kavanagh and flees. Mending his injuries, Quan remembers escaping from Vietnam by boat, during which his first two daughters were abducted, sexually assaulted and murdered by Thai pirates. Hennessy also looks into Quan's past and discovers he was a CIA recruit who fought with the LRRP in Vietnam. After Quan ambushes and threatens Hennessy, the latter contacts his nephew Sean Morrison, a retired Royal Irish Regiment soldier and skilled tracker, from New York City in hopes of stopping Quan. Hennessey first sends Sean to London to negotiate with Bromley and strike a deal in which Hennessy will give each IRA cell new codewords, thereby allowing both of them to locate the bombers after their next attack. Bromley agrees, on the condition that the police will take them down, not him and his uncle.

Hugh McGrath, an old IRA buddy from The Troubles, arrives and asks why Hennessy is searching his dumps. Liam tells Hugh that the semtex used in the bombing came from one of his dumps. McGrath denies knowing anything and claims that everything was in order. He wants there to be more attacks and tries to persuade his friend to agree. Hennessy reveals that he secretly ordered the bombings, but only wanted financial institutions to be targeted and civilians to remain unharmed.  McGrath angrily accuses Hennessy of caring more about his position within the UK government than the IRA's cause. Before the former departs, Hennessy demands that McGrath contact and call off the bombers, otherwise he will kill them both.

A second bombing occurs on a double-decker bus and no codeword is given, creating distrust between Bromley and Hennessy. British cabinet minister Katherine Davies tells Hennessy that Royal pardons for several of his IRA ex-comrades will be considered only if he immediately hands over the bombers. If not, British paratroopers will re-occupy Northern Ireland’s streets within two days. Hennessy soon learns from a henchmen named Murphy that Sean inadvertently leaked information to his wife Mary whilst having a dalliance with her. Meanwhile, Bromley discovers security footage of Hugh McGrath talking with an Authentic IRA member and notifies Hennessy. Hennessy tortures McGrath into giving him the identities of the terrorists with Maggie among them, whose real name is Sara Mackay. The purpose of the affair was to link Liam to the bombers should he decide to reject further violence. Hennessy also learns that Mary is in league with the terrorists. She resents the British because of her brother Patrick’s murder by a UVF death squad and hates her husband for imprisoning his killers instead of assassinating them . In retaliation for his betrayal and for involving his wife and mistress, Hennessy fatally shoots McGrath. He then calls Morrison and shares the info, in case the latter fails to defeat Quan.

After finding Quan’s hideout and losing a knife fight with him, Sean names the bombers and their location in London before Quan lets him go. Once Sean is back at the farmhouse, Hennessy chastises his nephew for his illicit deed. He tells him to bury McGrath in the pig pen, informs Morrison of last task that he has for him, and that upon its completion Morrison must return to New York.

As SO15 and MI5 prepare to raid the bombers's London safe house, Quan enters the flat posing as a gas man and kills everyone but Sara, leaving her severely wounded. He exits the apartment just as the CTC unit burst in. They then torture McKay into disclosing the location of their next bomb, which has been planted in a laptop belonging to a reporter whom Sara seduced, and is to be detonated on a plane carrying British dignitaries to a conference in Rome. With only seconds to spare, UK airport police throw the laptop into an empty jet bridge, where it blows up without casualties. Wanting no “loose ends”, the counterterrorists execute McKay.
Davies, who was scheduled to be on the targeted flight, tells Hennessy over the phone that she has learned of his involvement with the bombers, but having helped prevent the last attack he can retain his position as deputy First Minister, albeit under her control. She also confirms that pardons for five IRA fugitives, including his cousin, have been issued and instructs him to fly back to London the next day for debriefing. Sean visits Mary and shoots her dead with a silenced pistol, eliminating the entire terror cell and removing any connection to Hennessy.

Quan confronts Hennessy at his hotel with the picture of him kissing Maggie/Sara on his phone. Hennessy is forced by Quan to post the photo on the internet, publicizing his ties Authentic IRA and ensuring the end his political career. After telling Hennessy that the whole world will know of his crimes, Quan returns to his restaurant and reunites with Lam.

Scotland Yard determines Quan's role in the events and has him put under surveillance; on the basis that he thinks that they "owe this chap something", Bromley decides not to arrest Quan and keeps him as "observe and report only."

