{{Hatnote|The plot of the film connects with the predecessor. For more information on the predecessor's plot, see Baahubali: The Beginning.}}

Kattappa continues to narrate how he betrayed and assassinated Amarendra Bahubali. After vanquishing the Kalakeyas, Amarendra is declared as the heir apparent to the throne while Bhallaladeva is announced as the kingdom's future commander-in-chief. Queen Sivagami Devi sends Amarendra on a tour of the land under disguise with Kattappa to attain knowledge in political affairs. During the tour, Amarendra witnesses the valour of the neighbouring kingdom Kuntala's Princess Devasena when she resists a group of attackers. Falling in love with her, he approaches her after the fight, posing as a simpleton and Kattappa plays along with him as his uncle. Amarendra is accepted as guard in training under Devasena's maternal cousin Kumara Varma, a coward who pretends to be brave, at the royal palace of Kuntala.

Bhallaladeva gets word about Amarendra's acts and upon viewing Devasena's portrait, lusts for her and acquires a promise from Sivagami, who assures Bhallaladeva's marriage with Devasena oblivious to the fact that Amarendra has already fallen in love with her. Sivagami sends an emissary to Kuntala proposing marriage but the emissary portrays it in a patronizing way leaving Devasena enraged. She gives a scathing reply rejecting the proposal and upon receiving her response, Bijjaladeva tricks Sivagami into sending an order to Amarendra that Devasena be brought to Mahishmati as a captive.

In Kuntala, an attack by Pindari dacoits on the royal palace exposes Amarendra and Kattappa's bravery and they nullify the attack with assistance from Devasena and Kumara Varma, who overcomes his cowardice with Amarendra's encouragement. Upon being confronted when Amarendra receives the message to capture Devasena, Kattappa reveals that Amarendra is the future king of Mahishmati. Amarendra, promising Devasena that he would protect her honour at any cost, takes her to Mahishmati. In the court, the misunderstanding is brought to light and Sivagami tells Amarendra to choose between the throne and Devasena. Unwilling to break his promise to the princess, he chooses to marry her and serve the kingdom as its commander-in-chief. Bhallaladeva's coronation takes place at a grand note but he seethes with jealousy over Amarendra's popularity among citizens. Devasena soon expects a child and during her baby shower, Bhallaladeva deprives Amarendra of his commander post under pretext of making sure that Amarendra spends most of his time with his pregnant wife and the post is given to court official Sethupathi. Devasena questions the decision, declaring it unfair and confronts Sivagami for her inactions. She asks Amarendra to ascend the throne as a gift to her, leaving everyone stunned by her insolence.

During her visit to a temple, Devasena cuts Sethupathi's fingers off with a dagger when he gropes women and tries to do the same to her. She is shackled and produced in the court where Amarendra beheads Sethupathi. Both Devasena and Amarendra are banished from royal palace and decide to live as commoners. As Amarendra's fame does not decrease, Bijjaladeva and Bhallaladeva stage a conspiracy to further turn Sivagami against Amarendra. Bijjaladeva convinces Kumara Varma that Amarendra, Devasena and their unborn baby's lives shall be threatened by Bhallaladeva's evil schemes and manipulates him into entering the palace at stealth of night for assassinating Bhallaladeva to do good. However, Kumara Varma and his companions are defeated and killed. Sivagami, who believes that Kumara Varma is sent by Amarendra for murdering Bhallaladeva secretly passes an order to Kattappa for assassinating Amarendra as declaring it publicly would lead to an internal war.

Destined to be bound to the kingdom, Kattappa lures Amarendra into a secluded place feigning that he is in trouble, before backstabbing and killing him. Bhallaladeva exposes himself to Kattappa as the mastermind behind Amarendra's assassination. Kattappa returns to the palace, angrily blaming Sivagami for her son's death while informing her of Bhallaladeva's treachery. Sivagami collapses onto the floor when she realizes her actions, and Devasena arrives with her newborn son. Sivagami begs for forgiveness from Devasena and declares to the panicked hordes outside the palace that Amarendra died and his son Mahendra Baahubali would ascend the throne. She orders an assembly to punish Bhallaladeva and his father but Bhallaladeva orders the guards to capture her. With Kattapa's help, she flees with the infant boy but falls into a river after being hit by an arrow shot by Bhallaladeva which leads her to a passage that ends down the mountain. Bhallaladeva becomes a tyrannical emperor who holds Devasena prisoner for the next 25 years and destroys Kuntala. In the time she is a prisoner, Devasena prepares a large collection of sticks in the center of the palace, ostensibly as a funeral pyre for herself, but in reality to cremate Bhallaladeva on with the same ritual seen in the beginning of the movie.

Having heard the story of how much his mother and motherland have suffered at the hands of Bhallaledeva, Mahendra Baahubali (alias Shivudu / Shiva) immediately declares war. He assembles his army, consisting of the rebel soldiers, villagers and Mahishmati's slave army led by Kattappa.

With Kattappa's and Avantika's assistance, the army lays siege to Mahishmati. Bhallaladeva recaptures Devasena and kills her brother Jaya Varma, but Kattappa, Mahendra, and the rebels breach the city walls and save her. Mahendra engages Bhallaladeva in a brutal fight that sees both gain the upperhand at various points. Devasena, balancing fire on her head, walks through the courtyard protected by Kattappa, Avantika, and other soldiers. Although her path is almost broken on a few instances, Mahendra is able to improvise and ensure Devasena continues walking. Meanwhile, Mahendra fights back and pins Bhallaladeva down on the pyre using the chains from Devasena's cage. After completing the ritual, Devasena burns Bhallaladeva alive, killing him and ending his reign permanently. The next day, Mahendra is crowned as the new king of Mahishmati with Avantika as his queen, declaring Mahishmati will be dedicated to upholding peace and justice under his leadership, and that any perpetrators of injustice will meet the same fate as Bhallaladeva.

