The ponies of Equestria prepare for their first Friendship Festival, overseen by Princess Twilight Sparkle in Canterlot. The festivities are interrupted by an army of monsters commanded by the unicorn Tempest Shadow, who is ordered by her superior, the Storm King, to capture Equestria's princesses and empower his mystical staff with their magic in exchange for restoring her broken horn. Tempest uses magical orbs to petrify the princesses except for Twilight, who escapes with her six friends: Pinkie Pie, Rainbow Dash, Rarity, Applejack, Fluttershy, and the dragon Spike.

Following incomplete instructions from Princess Celestia, Twilight and her friends sets out to find the "queen of the hippo" beyond Equestria. They arrive at the desert city of Klugetown, where they accept an offer by a con artist feline named Capper to escort them to the "hippos", unaware as he intends to sell them to settle a debt, he owes to local mob boss Verko. As Capper begins to develop a genuine friendship with them, Twilight discovers an atlas that reveals the "hippos" to be hippogriffs. When the group prepare to leave, Verko arrives to buy the ponies, exposing Capper's treachery. When Tempest arrives in pursuit of Twilight, the group evades her aboard a delivery airship run by birdlike pirates, whom Rainbow Dash persuades to take them to the hippogriffs' kingdom on Mount Aris. However, she accidentally gives their location away to Tempest with a Sonic Rainboom, forcing the group to reach Mount Aris in a makeshift hot air balloon.

While exploring the hippogriffs' deserted kingdom, Twilight and her friends are led by the seapony Princess Skystar to her home of Seaquestria in an underwater cavern. Skystar reveals her kind to be the hippogriffs, transformed by a magic pearl used by her mother, Queen Novo, to hide from the Storm King. When Novo denies them the pearl to use against the Storm King, Twilight, frustrated by her friends' antics throughout the journey, desperately attempts to steal it while letting her friends unknowingly distract the seaponies. Her plan backfires when she triggers an alarm shortly after the others persuades Novo to give them the pearl, resulting in the entire group getting banished back to the surface. After disowning her friends during an argument over her actions, a remorseful Twilight is kidnapped by Tempest, who gains Twilight's sympathy upon revealing how the loss of her horn as a foal caused her own friends to shun her out of fear of her volatile magic.

Twilight's friends return to Canterlot to rescue her with the help of Capper, the pirates, and Skystar, who have followed them after being inspired by their friendship. Using the princesses' magic imbued into his staff, the Storm King conjures a storm against the group and betrays Tempest. Twilight saves Tempest as she and her friends reconcile, and they help her take the staff and end the storm. The Storm King hurls a magical orb at the group to petrify them, but Tempest jumps in his way, turning them both into stone. The Storm King falls and shatters, while the group uses the staff to revive Tempest, who returns the stolen magic to restore the princesses and repair the city. The Friendship Festival resumes with the ponies celebrating alongside everyone Twilight and her friends encountered on their adventure. Encouraged by Twilight, Tempest joins in by producing a fireworks display with her broken horn, and happily accepts the group's friendship.

