Thirteen years after the battle of Calypso's maelstrom,{{efn|As depicted in ''Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End'' (2007)}} a twelve-year-old Henry Turner boards the ''Flying Dutchman'' and informs his father, Will, that the curse which binds Will to the ''Dutchman'' and only permits him to step on land once a decade can be broken by the Trident of Poseidon. Henry intends to recruit Captain Jack Sparrow to help find it, but Will believes this is impossible and orders Henry to leave. Will and the ''Dutchman'' then disappear into the sea, but Henry vows to find Jack and the Trident.

Nine years later, in 1751, Henry is a midshipman in the Royal Navy. His ship sails into the supernatural Devil's Triangle and stumbles upon the wreck of the ''Silent Mary'', whose undead crew led by Spanish pirate-hunter, Captain Armando Salazar, slaughter the sailors but leave Henry as the sole survivor so that he can deliver a message to Jack, who led them to the Triangle decades ago, causing the downfall of Salazar and his crew and inadvertently cursing them.

On Saint Martin, a young astronomer named Carina Smyth is sentenced to death for witchcraft but escapes and crosses paths with Jack as he and his crew botch a bank robbery, suffering from a spell of bad luck. Jack later trades his compass for a drink, an act that destroys the Devil's Triangle and frees Salazar and his crew once more. Carina learns Henry is looking for the Trident's location and offers to help him using her unknown father's diary. Carina and Jack stall the execution process, but they escape with the help of Henry and Jack's crew, setting sail on the ''Dying Gull''. Carina deciphers the clues in her diary, discovering that the stars will lead to an island where the Trident is hidden.

Meanwhile, Captain Hector Barbossa hears from his pirate crew that the revived Captain Salazar has killed several pirates at sea and is destroying Barbossa's fleet. Barbossa talks his way out of being killed by offering to help find Jack and learns that the Trident could lead him to a "treasure". Salazar agrees, wanting revenge on Jack. Salazar pursues the ''Dying Gull'', forcing Jack, Henry, and Carina to flee to an island, discovering that Salazar's crew cannot go on land. Barbossa allies himself with Jack, returning his compass and restoring the miniaturized ''Black Pearl''{{efn|The ship was shrunk by Blackbeard "five winters" earlier, during the events of ''Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides'' (2011).}} to its original size. They continue their journey to the island, with Barbossa taking command of the ''Pearl'' once more. During the voyage, Jack and Barbossa realize Carina is the latter's long-lost daughter.

The ''Pearl'' approaches the Trident's island and evades a Royal Navy warship until it is destroyed by the ''Silent Mary'' before the ''Pearl'' runs aground on the island. Jack, Barbossa, and Carina use the island's magic to part the ocean which opens a path to the Trident on the ocean floor. Salazar captures Henry and possesses him to walk on the ocean floor and seize the Trident. Once he does so, Henry is given his body back, and Jack distracts Salazar, allowing Henry to destroy the Trident, breaking all curses upon the sea and restoring Salazar's crew to life. However, the Trident's destruction causes the divided sea to close in on them. The ''Pearl'' lowers its anchor to lift the group to safety, but Salazar pursues them, still hell-bent on killing Jack. Carina realizes that Barbossa is her father when she spots a tattoo on his arm identical to the diary's cover, a trident star formation. Barbossa sacrifices himself to kill Salazar, allowing the others to escape.

Sometime later, Henry and Carina reach Port Royal, where Will appears, free from the ''Dutchman''. His wife, Elizabeth Swann, appears moments later and the Turner family reunites. Henry and Carina kiss. Jack watches from the ''Pearl'' before sailing away into the horizon, captain once again, while also adopting Captain Barbossa's monkey Jack.

In a post-credits scene, Will and Elizabeth are asleep in their bed, when Davy Jones appears in their room. When he prepares to strike the couple, Will wakes up to find no one in the room. Assuming he had a nightmare, he goes back to sleep, oblivious to the wet barnacles on the floor.

