Immediately after ''Hatchet'', Marybeth Dunston is attacked by Victor Crowley, but manages to escape. Jack Cracker finds her and takes her back to his cabin, but forces her to leave after finding out her last name,  telling her to visit Reverend Zombie. Not long after she leaves, Jack is killed by Victor.

Marybeth returns to Reverend Zombie's shop, and he lets her in. After learning her last name, he tells her that her father Sampson was one of the boys responsible for causing the fire that led to Victor's death as a child. He also gives her more details on Victor's backstory; Thomas, Victor's father, had cheated on his wife Shyann with her nurse Lena after Shyann was diagnosed with stomach cancer. Moments before dying, Shyann placed a curse on the child conceived by Lena from the affair. Months later, Lena gave birth to Victor Crowley, but died of fright after seeing Victor's deformed face.
	
Marybeth tells Reverend Zombie she wants to go back and retrieve the remains of her father and brother. He agrees, but tells her she must bring a family member with her. After she leaves, Zombie calls Justin (the brother of Shawn from the first film), and tells him to summon a group of hunters (specifically including a man named Trent Graves) to go with them. Marybeth returns home, where her uncle Bob promptly shows up. He reluctantly agrees to accompany her to a recruitment meeting in Zombie's shop, where Zombie tells the hunters he will pay them $5,000 for the head of Victor Crowley. Marybeth, Bob and the hunters proceed to venture into the swamp.
	
As night descends, they find the boat and, as the rest leave, two of the hunters, Cletus and Chad, stay by the boat while the others fan out. Marybeth, Zombie, Justin, Bob and Trent look for Crowley's shed, as well as the bodies of his victims. Along the way, Zombie explains to Justin that Trent, Sampson and Sampson's brother were the kids who started the fire that led to Victor's death. Since Sampson has already been killed by Victor, Zombie believes that if Crowley kills Bob and Trent, his soul will be at peace and he will finally leave the swamp. Meanwhile, Victor begins murdering each of the hunters one by one.

While searching the cabin, the remaining party members hear Victor outside. As they hide, Justin tells Marybeth about Zombie's plot to get her uncle and Trent killed. As she runs to warn Bob, Victor appears behind Justin and kills him with a belt sander. Trent is murdered quickly thereafter, and Zombie drags Marybeth out of the house, trapping Bob inside with Victor, who murders him. Zombie declares Victor Crowley is dead, but Marybeth then reveals Bob was not her real uncle, and was actually her father's best friend; her real uncle had died of leukemia when Marybeth was twelve. Now realizing his plan has failed, Zombie turns to see Victor breaking through the wall of the cabin. Zombie attempts to fight Victor, but is brutally killed in doing so. Seconds later, however, Marybeth strikes Victor in the head with his own hatchet, knocking him to the ground, before she hysterically beats his head into a bloody pulp. She then grabs Zombie's shotgun and fires it into the remains of Victor's head, seemingly killing him.

