In 1891, Ben Talbot is attacked in the woods by a humanoid wolf. His brother, Shakespearean actor Lawrence Talbot, returns home after receiving a letter from Ben's fiancée Gwen Conliffe informing him of Ben's disappearance. Lawrence reunites with his estranged father Sir John, who informs him that Ben's body has already been found mutilated.

At a local pub, Lawrence overhears the locals believing it to be a wild animal. However, many blame Romani who are camped outside the town. Another claims there was a similar murder 25 years earlier; a werewolf was the suspected killer. Lawrence has flashbacks as he tours his family's home where his mother Solana seemingly committed suicide when he was a boy. Lawrence saw his father standing over her dead body; he was sent to Lambeth Hospital in London for a year, having suffered from delusions connected to the event.

Lawrence visits the Romani during a full moon. The local townspeople raid the camp to confiscate a dancing bear they believe is the killer. The werewolf then attacks the camp, killing several Romani and townspeople before biting Lawrence and escaping. A Romani woman named Maleva sutures Lawrence's shoulder wounds, but another Romani insists the now-cursed Lawrence should be killed before he kills others. Maleva refuses, saying he is still a man and only a loved one can release him.

After a night of fever dreams, Lawrence recovers with unnatural speed and develops heightened vitality and senses. Inspector Francis Aberline arrives to investigate, suspecting Lawrence is responsible based on his mental history. Terrified of possibly harming Gwen, Lawrence sends her to London. He follows Sir John to Solana's crypt, where Sir John locks himself in a room and gives his son a cryptic warning. Lawrence undergoes a painful transformation into a werewolf before running off into the woods and killing a group of local hunters.

The next morning, Aberline and the police arrest Lawrence. Taken back to Lambeth, Lawrence is subjected to advanced treatments overseen by the sadistic Dr. Hoenneger. Sir John visits Lawrence; explaining 25 years ago during a hunting expedition the Hindukush  in India, he was bitten by a feral boy infected with lycanthropy. Sir John was the werewolf who bit Lawrence and is responsible for the recent murders, including Solana and Ben. He made Singh lock him up every full moon night and contemplated suicide for years. Driven insane by his condition, Sir John has come to embrace his curse and has decided to let himself loose during his transformations. He informs Lawrence the moon will be full and leaves a razor in case Lawrence contemplates suicide.

By nightfall, Dr. Hoenneger conducts an evening lecture with Lawrence as a case study. Lawrence attempts to warn the attendees of the impending danger, but they laugh it off and continue. Transforming once more, Lawrence kills Dr. Hoenegger and a few orderlies before he escapes and goes on a rampage. The next day, Lawrence visits Gwen's antique shop for help. They admit their love for each other and share a passionate kiss. Aberline waits outside Talbot Hall, arming himself and accompanying policemen with silver bullets. Gwen searches for Maleva hoping to cure Lawrence, but Maleva tells her there isn't any cure and Lawrence must die.

Lawrence arrives at Talbot Hall, where Sir John has killed Singh and one of Aberline's men. He loads a gun with Singh's silver  bullets and attempts to shoot Sir John. Unfortunately, he realizes too late Sir John had removed the powder from the cartridges years ago. As the two struggle, with Sir John striking Lawrence with a silver cane, the full moon arises and the Talbots transform into werewolves. They set Talbot Hall on fire during their fight. Sir John initially gains the upper hand, wounding Lawrence. However, the latter manages to kick his deranged father into the fireplace and ultimately decapitates his father, avenging the deaths of his mother and brother.

Still in his werewolf form, Lawrence pursues Gwen and corners her above a gorge. She pleads with Lawrence, and his consciousness recognizes her. The police and hunters approach, distracting Lawrence long enough for Gwen to fatally shoot him with Aberline's gun. Lawrence reverts to human form; thanking Gwen for setting him free and dies in her arms. As Talbot Hall burns, Aberline is horrified with the knowledge he was bitten by Lawrence as he watches the full moon come into view, foreshadowing his imminent fate in becoming the next werewolf.

