Best friends Claire and Hailey are enjoying their last few days of summer vacation in their small beach town of Baybridge, near Tampa, before Hailey moves to Australia due to her mother's job as a marine biologist. Hailey prays to the ocean god for a miracle to make her mother change her mind about moving; minutes later, a violent storm occurs.

The next night, the girls sneak into the local pool, where they discover a mermaid named Aquamarine, who was washed in by the storm. Aquamarine befriends the girls and explains that she ran away from home because she had been forced into an arranged marriage. To end the engagement, Aquamarine must prove to her father that true love exists.

Aquamarine reveals her ability to change her tail into legs during the day, but explains she will revert back into her true mermaid form if she touches water, as well when the sun sets. She also confesses that she has her eyes set on Raymond, a lifeguard Hailey and Claire have had a crush on for years. They are reluctant to help her woo Raymond, but agree after Aquamarine explains that anyone who helps a mermaid is granted a wish, hoping they can use the wish to prevent Hailey from moving.

Not understanding human social cues, Aquamarine is rejected by Raymond when they first meet. The girls promise to make Raymond fall in love with her in the next three days using strategies found in teen magazines. A group of popular girls headed by Cecilia, the local meteorologist's spoiled daughter who is also interested in Raymond, attempt to sabotage Aquamarine.

Aquamarine and Raymond bond at a local dance but she is forced to leave since her legs turn into a tail at sunset. Before departing, she kisses him and asks him to meet her on the pier in the morning. Cecilia follows the girls to the water tower where Aquamarine is staying, and discovers her secret. She unhooks the ladder to prevent Aquamarine from leaving, and calls the news so she can expose and embarrass her on national television. The town's mysterious handyman helps Aquamarine escape, and she grants him a wish. Cecilia's father furiously confiscates her car as a punishment for embarrassing him on national television and also trying to tell viewers that Aquamarine is a mermaid (which the bystanders laugh at her nonsense, annoying her).

The next morning, Aquamarine asks Raymond if he loves her. Raymond says he likes her but has not fallen in love with her yet, since they have only been on one date, and that he wants to take his time in getting to know her. Aquamarine is heartbroken. Cecilia interrupts and pushes her into the ocean, where Aquamarine turns back into a mermaid. Raymond is shocked but rushes to get his rescue board to save her, much to Cecilia's dismay.

Aquamarine's father summons a giant storm, dragging Aquamarine back homeward, but Hailey and Claire jump into the ocean to her aid. When Aquamarine asks why they risked their own lives to save her, they respond that they love her. The power of the girls' friendship finally convinces Aquamarine's father of true love's existence and the storm subsides. The girls receive their wish, but decide to not use it to keep Hailey from moving away, because her mother worked hard for the job in Australia. Instead, they save the wish and say goodbye to Aquamarine, who promises to visit. Raymond also asks her to visit him and they kiss. Back on shore, Raymond thanks the girls for their bravery and for introducing him to Aquamarine. Hailey and Claire tell each other they will miss each other and part ways.

In the stage booklet during the end credits,{{explain|date=May 2022}} it is revealed that Claire, Raymond, and Aquamarine meet up with Hailey in Australia a year later and explore the Great Barrier Reef together.

