Michael Newman is an architect who is consistently bullied by his overbearing boss, John Ammer, and often chooses work over his wife Donna and his two children, Ben and Samantha. One night, Michael visits the retail store Bed Bath & Beyond to buy a universal remote control because he owns too many remotes. After an unsuccessful search for a new universal remote control, he stumbles around various departments before falling asleep. Upon waking, he accepts a free remote control from a man named Morty, but when he gives it to Michael, he warns him that the remote cannot be returned.

Michael learns that the remote can be used to control reality much like a television. He uses it to his advantage at work, to cause light-hearted mischief, and to fast-forward past illnesses. Morty tells Michael that during these times, his body is on "auto-pilot", going through the motions of everyday life while his mind skips ahead.

After thinking that Ammer has promoted him to a partnership, Michael buys bicycles for his children and a Kate Spade purse for Donna. However, Ammer tells him that he has not yet been promoted, so he cannot afford the gifts and must return them immediately. Disappointed that he upset his family, Michael uses the remote to skip ahead his promotion, causing him to miss out a year of his life. He finds out he is in marriage counseling, his children prefer watching ''CSI'' over ''Dragon Tales'', and he missed the death of his dog. The remote, having learned his preferences, begins to time-skip automatically. Every time Michael tries to discard or destroy the remote, it keeps on reappearing. He later tells Morty to return it where it belongs, but Morty refuses to take it back because it cannot be returned.

The next day, Ammer tells Michael he is retiring and suggests that one day Michael may end up CEO. Momentarily forgetting his plan to outfox the remote, Michael says he would like to end up CEO; the remote reacts accordingly and fast-forwards to 2017. Michael is now the wealthy CEO of the company and is also morbidly obese. Michael also discovers that Donna has divorced him and is now dating Ben's childhood swim coach, Bill. While visiting his old house, Michael fights with Ben, Donna and Bill, and the new family dog pounces on him, causing him to fall and hit his head on a brick wall, knocking him unconscious. The remote then fast forwards six years ahead to the future. Donna recounts how a precautionary CT scan after Michael's fall revealed cancer, and how he ate so prolifically during chemotherapy as to subsequently suffer from a heart attack. Now, at the end of those six years, Michael is no longer obese, Donna has married Bill, and Ben has taken over Michael's work.

Michael learns that his father, Ted, has died of old age. Morty reappears as Michael mourns him. Michael uses the remote to see when he last saw Ted, when Michael coldly rebuffed Ted's offer to take him and Ben out to dinner. At Ted's grave, Morty reveals to Michael that he is the Angel of Death. Overcome with guilt and shame, Michael asks to go to a "good place", whereupon the remote fast-forwards him several more years in the future to Ben's wedding. He overhears Samantha refer to Bill as Dad, causing him to have a second heart attack. Later that night, he wakes in the hospital to find his family there, including Samantha, who clarifies that she views both Bill and Michael as her fathers. Ben reveals that he skipped his honeymoon due to work. Realizing that Ben is making the same mistakes he made, Michael gathers the last of his strength to follow him and Samantha out of the hospital, but collapses and dies, but not before telling Ben to put his family first, and assures his family that he still loves them.

Michael reawakens in Bed Bath & Beyond and believes that he was dreaming, but sees it as a sign that he needs to make changes in his life. He embraces his family and promises to spend more time with them. At home he finds the remote on the counter along with a note from Morty, who reveals he has given him a second chance because "Good guys need a break." Michael throws the remote in the trash, and much to his surprise, it does not reappear. He then joins his family in a pillow fight.

