After finishing a concert at Lake Springfield, Green Day tries to engage the audience in a discussion about the environment, but their audience refuses to listen and instead throws trash at them. The pollution in the lake erodes the band's barge, causing them to sink and drown. During their memorial, Grampa Simpson has a spiritual experience and prophesies that a disaster will befall Springfield. However, only Marge takes it seriously. Concerned about the terrible state of the environment, Lisa and her new friend Colin hold a seminar and convince the town to clean up the lake. Meanwhile, at Krusty Burger, Homer adopts a pig to save it from being killed by Krusty the Clown. Marge, identifying the pig as a part of the prophecy, warns Homer to get rid of it, but he refuses. Homer's fawning over the pig makes Bart, now fed up with his father's carelessness, look to their neighbor, Ned Flanders, as a father figure.

Homer stores the pig's feces (and some of his own) in an overflowing silo, disgusting Marge. Homer attempts to dispose of it safely at her request. However, after learning Lard Lad's Donuts is giving away free donuts, Homer, to get there faster, dumps the silo in the lake, critically polluting it. Moments later, a squirrel stumbles into it and becomes mutated with many eyes, another part of the prophecy. While bonding on a hike, Bart and Ned notice the squirrel, which is captured by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Russ Cargill, head of the EPA, informs president Arnold Schwarzenegger on Springfield's pollution crisis. As a response, the president orders the federals to imprison Springfield under a glass dome, completely fulfilling the prophecy. When Homer's silo is discovered on live television, most of the townspeople form an angry mob and attempt to lynch them. The family escapes through a sinkhole, which destroys their house afterwards, and flees to Alaska, where they try to restart their lives.

Within 93 days, Springfield exhausts its daily supplies and the townspeople lose their sanity while trying to escape from the dome. Cargill, who does not want word of his imprisonment of Springfield to spread, plots to destroy the town by tricking the president into ordering its demolition. The Simpsons see a television advertisement, featuring Tom Hanks, for a new Grand Canyon on the site of Springfield. Realizing that Springfield is in danger, all of them decide to save it, except for Homer, who refuses to help the people who tried to kill them. Distraught, Marge records herself explaining they have no intentions of returning on their wedding video, causing him to run off in search of them. After an encounter with an Inuit shaman who saves him from a polar bear, Homer has an epiphany about saving the town to save himself. Meanwhile, his family is captured by the EPA in Seattle and placed back inside the dome.

Homer returns to Springfield as the EPA lowers a time bomb suspended by a rope through a hole at the top of the dome. Homer enters the dome and descends the rope, knocking the escaping townspeople and the bomb off, inadvertently shortening its countdown. Taking a motorcycle, he reunites and reconciles with Bart. Using the motorcycle to travel up the side of the dome, Bart throws the bomb through the hole seconds before it detonates, shattering the dome and freeing the town. Later, Cargill attempts to kill the pair with a shotgun for foiling his plan. However, before he can do so, Maggie knocks him out by dropping a rock on his head. As Cargill is fired and arrested for his actions, the townspeople decide to forgive Homer and hail him a hero for saving Springfield from destruction. Riding into the sunset, Homer shares a kiss with Marge on board the motorcycle. Afterwards, as the townspeople work to restore Springfield, they rebuild the Simpsons' house out of gratitude.

