Five years after competing in the World Grand Prix,{{Efn|As depicted in ''Cars 2'' (2011)}} Lightning McQueen, now a seven-time Piston Cup champion,<ref>{{cite web |title=Pixar Animation Studios |url=https://www.pixar.com/feature-films/cars-3 |url-status=live |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20220811210634/https://www.pixar.com/feature-films/cars-3 |archive-date=August 11, 2022 |access-date=September 9, 2022 |df=mdy-all}}</ref> finds himself overshadowed by Jackson Storm, a rookie who is part of a new generation of racecars who use the latest technology to improve their performance. As Storm's success progresses throughout the season and attracts other rookies, most of the veterans either retire or are dismissed by their sponsors. In the season's final race at Los Angeles, Lightning starts falling behind Storm after both of them pitted. He tries to keep up, but in doing so, stalls his engine and suffers a violent crash, leaving him badly damaged and ending his worst season on record prematurely, while Storm goes on to win the Piston Cup.

Four months later, Lightning, who has since recovered from his crash, decides that he will continue racing and calls his sponsors, Rusty and Dusty Rust-eze, who reveal they have sold Rust-eze to a businesscar named Sterling. Sterling assigns Lightning to train under Cruz Ramirez, where he struggles to adapt to modern training methods. After Lightning accidentally damages a simulator, Sterling tries to force him to retire. Adamant that he can still race, Lightning instead offers that if he wins the upcoming Florida 500, he can decide if he wants to keep racing; otherwise, he will retire immediately. Sterling reluctantly accepts the deal.

Cruz's unconventional training methods and lack of racing experience frustrate Lightning as they race in Fireball Beach and the figure-8-style demolition derby Thunder Hollow. Lightning rages at her and accidentally breaks her trophy. An upset Cruz reveals that she had always wanted to be a racer but never started a race, so she resigns as Lightning's trainer and heads back to the training center. Guilty and with no other options, Lightning calls his friend Mater for advice, who suggests that Lightning track down Doc Hudson's mentor Smokey in his hometown of Thomasville, Georgia. Hence, Lightning catches up to Cruz and convinces her to rejoin him. In Thomasville, they meet up with Smokey, who reveals that even though Doc never raced again, he found new happiness in training Lightning. After Lightning accepts that he will never be as fast as Storm, Smokey and Doc's old friends, Louise "Barnstormer" Nash, River Scott, and Junior "Midnight" Moon, help him learn new tricks to overcome his speed disadvantage, using Cruz as his sparring partner. However, during the final practice race, Cruz suddenly overtakes him, and he suffers a flashback to his crash, shaking his confidence.

At the Florida 500, Lightning starts at the back but, with assistance from Smokey in the pits, manages to gradually push up the ranks. Sterling, who still believes Lightning cannot win, orders Cruz back to the training center to prepare a rookie for the following race despite her wanting to stay and watch the race. Overhearing the exchange on his radio and remembering Cruz's dream of racing, Lightning avoids a massive multi-car pile-up and has his crew outfit her to take his place in the race, giving her a second chance to become a racecar. While shaky at first, Cruz is able to push up the ranks, thanks to Lightning coaching her from the pits and eventually ends up right behind Storm. Feeling threatened, Storm tries to intimidate Cruz, even attempting to ram her against the wall in the final lap. Using one of Doc's old moves, Cruz flips over Storm, overtaking him and winning the race.

As Cruz celebrates her victory, Sterling offers her a role on his team, but she instead takes a counteroffer from Dinoco's owner Tex Dinoco. Since Lightning and Cruz were both wearing #95, both have won the race, meaning that Lightning gets to decide if he is done racing. Returning to Radiator Springs, Lightning reveals that Tex has bought Rust-eze from Sterling. Now decked in Doc's old racing colors, Lightning decides to continue racing but trains Cruz first for the rest of the season.

