Two years after their final competition, the Bellas have graduated from Barden University, but they all hate their jobs. And to make matters worse, Beca and Jesse's relationship ended in between the second and third film, and Amy and Bumper's relationship didn't last too long either. Beca, Amy, Chloe, Aubrey, Lilly, Stacie, Cynthia Rose, Florencia, Jessica, and Ashley are thrilled when Emily, now a senior and leader of the current Barden Bellas, invites them to an event. Arriving at the reunion, they learn that Emily simply invited them to see the new Bellas, not sing. The Bellas later gather at a bar, disappointed, and express how much they miss each other. Aubrey convinces them to join a USO tour, hoping her father sees.

Emily fills in for Stacie, who is eight months pregnant. The Bellas land at a base in Rota, Spain, greeted by liaisons soldiers Chicago and Zeke. They also meet the other three bands, including the mean-spirited female quartet Evermoist. The others use musical instruments, making the Bellas feel off. Chloe begins to fall for Chicago. Fat Amy learns that Fergus, her estranged father (also a ruthless international crime lord), has found her at their hotel. The Bellas are invited to a party at DJ Khaled's suite, while Amy is invited to a poker tournament. The tournament was a ruse by Fergus, who begs to be in Amy's life, which she agrees to after believing he has changed.

Beca develops a friendship with DJ Khaled's music producer Theo, who is impressed when she easily produces a mix of her own singing on Khaled's editing equipment. Moments later, the party is thrown into chaos when Aubrey accidentally starts a fire. While the Bellas are wallowing in disgrace, Stacie calls with news that her daughter, Bella, has been born, invigorating them. Back on the tour, the Bellas perform to adoring crowds. Fergus and Amy are gradually making up, until he accidentally reveals that he is only trying to acquire her US$180&nbsp;million offshore account created by Amy's mother, causing Amy to disown her father. Meanwhile, DJ Khaled asks Beca to open for him without the other Bellas. Beca declines the offer and returns to her room, and doesn't tell the group she was asked.

The Bellas (without Beca and Amy) are abducted and taken aboard Fergus' yacht, as an attempt to manipulate Amy. When she and Beca learn of the kidnapping, they sneak onboard. Beca distracts Fergus by leading the Bellas in a performance of "Toxic", while Amy sets up and detonates a bomb. The Bellas escape the yacht, and Fergus is later arrested. After the Bellas are rescued by the military, Amy reveals DJ Khaled's proposition to Beca to the others. They encourage her to take the chance, agreeing that it is time to move on with their lives. They know they will stay connected to each other as a family. At the USO's final performance, Beca opens for DJ Khaled, then brings the Bellas onstage to sing their final performance – "Freedom! '90".

Gail and John, the public announcers when the Bellas originally competed, have filmed a Bella documentary, only to be appalled when John realizes they didn't record the Bellas' final performance. Now the Bellas' lives are improving: Amy uses her new bankroll for tributes to singers named Amy; Aubrey works as a birthing coach; Flo's juice cart becomes an international brand; Chloe gets into vet school; Cynthia-Rose enlists in the USAF flight school; Emily returns to Barden and to her songwriting; Lilly reveals that she was quiet because she was possessed by Satan, the bomb snapped her out of it, and her real name is Esther, and starts a relationship with DJ Dragon Nutz; Aubrey reconnects with her father; Chloe and Chicago become an item; Beca is now Theo's boss.

