The film is presented as footage from a personal camcorder recovered by the U.S. Department of Defense in the area "formerly known as Central Park", bearing a disclaimer stating multiple sightings of a case designated "Cloverfield".

This earlier footage, recorded on April 27, 2008, shows Robert "Rob" Hawkins waking up with Elizabeth "Beth" McIntyre in her father's apartment above Columbus Circle before embarking on a date across New York City and Coney Island. Fragments of this overwritten footage appear during the course of the film.

Rob has a farewell party on May 22, 2008, thrown by his brother Jason and Jason's girlfriend Lily Ford, celebrating his new job as vice-president for a company in Japan. Jason gets Rob's best friend, Hudson "Hud" Platt, to film testimonials for Rob during the party. Beth, whose feelings are hurt because Rob never called her back after their one night together, brings a new man to the party. Beth and Rob argue, and she leaves shortly before a massive earthquake occurs, causing a brief citywide power outage; the local news reports a capsized oil tanker near Liberty Island. From the roof, the partygoers witness an explosion in the distance and flee as flaming debris flies in their direction.

As the partygoers leave the building, the severed head of the Statue of Liberty is hurled into the street in front of them. In the chaos, Hud records an enormous creature several blocks away collapsing the Woolworth Building. When the group attempts to evacuate Manhattan, the creature's tail destroys the Brooklyn Bridge, killing Jason and dozens of other people. News reports show the Army National Guard's 42nd Infantry Division attacking the monster. Smaller parasitic creatures fall off its body and attack nearby pedestrians and soldiers.

Rob listens to a phone message from Beth, who is trapped in her apartment at the Time Warner Center and unable to move. Rob, followed by Hud, Lily, and Hud's crush Marlena Diamond, venture into Midtown Manhattan to rescue her. They find themselves in a battle between the creature and military, run into the subway, and are attacked by several of the parasites. While saving Hud, Marlena is bitten by one of the creatures. The four escape the subway and enter an underground mall where she begins to feel unwell. They are found by soldiers and taken to a command center nearby. When Marlena begins bleeding from her eyes, she is forcibly taken to a field hospital and explodes.

Rob, still intending on saving Beth, persuades one of the military commanders to let them go. He is informed when the last evacuation helicopter will depart before the military executes its "Hammer Down Protocol", which will destroy Manhattan in its entirety in order to kill the monster. The surviving group travel to Beth's apartment building to discover it leaning on a neighboring skyscraper. After crossing roofs from the other building, the group finds Beth impaled on exposed rebar. They free her and make their way to the evacuation site at Grand Central Terminal, where they encounter the creature again.

Lily is first rushed into a departing Marine Corps helicopter to escape before the terminal is destroyed. Moments later, Rob, Beth and Hud are taken away in a second helicopter and witness the creature being bombed. The bombing causes the creature to fall and success is assumed, but then it lunges out of the smoke, hitting the second helicopter and causing it to crash in Central Park, killing all the occupants except Rob, Beth and Hud.

Fifteen minutes before the Hammer Down Protocol is to commence, the trio regain consciousness and attempt to flee; Hud turns back to retrieve the camera when the creature suddenly appears and kills him. Rob and Beth grab the camera and take shelter under an arch as sirens blare, and the bombing starts. Rob and Beth each provide their last testimony of the day's events. The bridge begins to crumble, and the camera is knocked out of Rob's hand and buried beneath rubble. Rob and Beth proclaim their love for each other just as the bomb explodes, the camera freezing up before the footage cuts.

The film ends with the finale of Rob and Beth's trip to Coney Island a month earlier. Unseen by them, an indiscernible object falls from the sky and into the ocean. Just before the camera cuts out, Beth states, "I had a good day."

After the credits, a voice can be heard saying, "Help us..." When played in reverse, it says, "It's still alive."

