The Reaper virus ravaged Scotland. Unable to contain the outbreak or cure the infected, the British government built a massive 30-foot wall that isolated Scotland from the rest of Great Britain. While the quarantine was deemed a success, the extreme method employed by the government destroyed diplomatic and economic relations between the UK and the rest of the world, turning the state itself into a pariah state.

In 2035, authorities discovered several people in London infected with the Reaper virus during a routine investigation. Prime Minister John Hatcher shares satellite footage of survivors in Scotland with domestic security chief Captain Nelson. Believing a cure may exist, Hatcher orders Nelson to send a team into Scotland to find medical researcher Dr. Kane, who was working on a cure when Scotland was quarantined. Nelson chooses Eden Sinclair, his top police officer, to lead the team. For Sinclair, the mission is also personal, as she hopes to learn if her mother survived after she managed to escape the quarantine.

Sinclair's team crosses the wall to Glasgow, Dr. Kane's last known location. While searching the local hospital for survivors, Sinclair and her team are ambushed by a group of marauders. Sgt. Norton and Dr. Stirling escape, while the team suffers heavy casualties. Cannibals led by the power-hungry Sol capture Sinclair and Dr. Talbot. Dr. Talbot was burned and eaten alive. With the help of Cally, another prisoner, Sinclair escapes and kills Viper, Sol's second-in-command. She meets Norton and Stirling, and the three escape on a train. Cally reveals that she and Sol are Kane's children. 

Meanwhile, back in London, the increasingly violent infected spread rapidly on the streets. Hatcher plans to evacuate the central London area when one of the infected breaks into Hatcher's office and tries to kill him. Nelson shoots and kills the man to save Hatcher, but his infected blood splatters all over the prime minister. As a result of Hatcher's unexpected infection, he is quarantined by his right-hand man, Michael Canaris, who also takes his place as ''de facto'' prime minister. Hatcher later commits suicide, knowing that his exposure to the Reaper Virus means an almost-certain death sentence from the virus.

After leaving the train, Sinclair's group is spotted and kidnapped by soldiers armed with archaic weapons and armor. They are taken to a medieval castle and imprisoned. Their leader, Marcus Kane, tells Sinclair the truth: there is no cure — only people with immunity. Kane sentences her and her group to death, pitting Sinclair against Telamon, his executioner, in a small fighting ground to entertain his followers. During the duel, Sinclair subdues and kills Telamon while the rest of the group escapes, retrieving their equipment and rescuing Sinclair.

Sinclair, Norton, Stirling, and Cally escape on horseback to a fallout shelter entrance. Inside, they find a 2007 Bentley Continental GT and a satellite phone. Kane's army arrives and kills Norton. Sinclair and the others drive the Bentley back to the quarantine wall. On the way, they are intercepted by Sol's gang. After a high-speed chase, Sol and many of his men are killed, and Sinclair's group escapes. Sinclair calls Canaris, who later arrives in a government gunship. Sinclair and Stirling turn over Cally, whose blood can be used to create a vaccine for the virus. However, Canaris reveals that he intends to allow the virus to spread a form of population control and shady profit.

Cally and Stirling board the gunship with Canaris while Sinclair returns to her old house in search of her mother, followed by Nelson, who flew into the quarantine zone to see her. Sinclair learns that her mother perished during the quarantine and gives Nelson a recording of Canaris' scheme to take over the UK, which he uses to publicly expose Canaris. Sinclair retrieves Sol's head and returns it to his gang; she throws the head onto the ground. The marauders burst into cheering, accepting Sinclair as their new leader.

