A sting operation to capture arms dealer Miles Jackson goes awry when the FBI's inside man double crosses them. Miles escapes with his girlfriend Erica Kessen in a getaway car. Officers Danny Fisher and Hank Carver help the FBI. They find a surveillance video of Miles dancing with Kessen. A subsequent encounter at a traffic light leads to her death and Miles being taken away. Miles swears vengeance on Fisher.

One year later, Miles escapes from prison and calls Fisher, who is now a Detective. Fisher is injured when his car and house explode. After recovery, Jackson forces Fisher in a game of revenge called "12 Rounds". The explosions were "Round 1". Fisher's girlfriend Molly is kidnapped for "Round 2". For "Round 3", Fisher follows clues to locate the cell phone
For "Round 4" Fisher goes to New Orleans Savings and Loans and extracts two security deposit boxes within 20 minutes in the middle of an active fire.

While Fisher continues with the game, his friend Carver looks into Molly's kidnapping. FBI Agents work with them as well.

Round after round, Fisher keeps progressing and barely making it ahead.

Fisher ultimately understands that the rounds were rigged from the start. The inevitable death in the elevator was also orchestrated by Jackson. All events turn out to be connected. They figure out that Jackson was leading them to take out the power because Homewood Security comes in to move the federally unprotected cash from the United States Mint in New Orleans. Jackson's grudge against Fisher was only a cover for his scheme to steal this money.

Fisher realizes that "Round 12" is a wild-goose chase. Jackson, dressed as a security guard, steals the cash. He uses Porter's ID card to get to a Medevac chopper on a hospital roof, transporting the money inside a body bag. Fisher and Aiken race to the hospital roof, where Aiken is wounded. Jackson activates the touch phone-bomb and throws the switch away. Porter and Fisher jump into a pool, while Jackson is left in the exploding helicopter. The movie ends with Danny and Molly leaving, with Molly wanting to go home, but Danny tells her about what happened to it.

