For their honeymoon, newlyweds Cliff and Cydney travel to Hawaii. After making a travel video in the car, the two spend the night in a hotel before driving off in order to start hiking towards a remote beach. Whilst in the car, the two encounter another couple: kind-hearted Cleo who attempts to hitchhike with them and hot-headed Kale who takes Cleo away from the two. 

On the hike, they are befriended by tourist Nick and his girlfriend Gina. Nick and Gina accompany Cliff and Cydney in their journey, but tensions begin to arise in the group when a double homicide of an unidentified couple is reported in the area, with a man and woman being suspected as the killers. The two couples arrive at a waterfall; Kale and Cleo are also there.

Kale makes vague threats to Cydney, which seemingly worries Cliff. Nick also discovers that Cliff is a screenwriter and attempts to convince him to have a movie made about him; he was a soldier and had his skull crushed, but survived thanks to an operation where metal plates were put in his head. Cliff lets Nick continue on about this throughout the journey despite not intending to make a movie about it. 

After moving on, the four go deeper into the jungle and become wary of each other due to the reported murders. The tensions, however, die down after the four witness Kale and Cleo being arrested for the murders after some teeth were found in Kale's backpack.

Arriving at their destination, Cliff convinces Nick to explore a marine cave with him while Cydney and Gina wait behind on the beach. Gina looks through photos at a camera before suddenly screaming at Nick and Cliff, however they ignore her and she begins to scale a cliff after them with Cydney in pursuit. Once alone with Cliff in the cave, Nick realizes that he has been tricked as Cliff draws a gun. It is revealed that the real Cliff and Cydney were the unidentified victims of the double homicide, murdered by their impostors. The impostor Cliff is Rocky, the high school boyfriend of the imposter Cydney, and the two are meth addicts and have been committing the murders to assume the identities of their victims - getting the victims life stories by pretending to be scriptwriters. Gina, who saw the wedding photos with the real Cliff and Cydney, witnesses Rocky shoot Nick and attempts to escape. After fighting off Cliff, but being stabbed and shot, Gina runs into the jungle. Rocky tells his girlfriend to mislead the police about the transpiring events while he chases after Gina.

Gina finds some men but Rocky kills them all and seriously injures Gina before she manages to escape. Rocky's pursuit of Gina is stopped by the emergence of Nick, who survived the gunshot due to the previously mentioned metal plates. Nick gains the upper hand and holds Rocky at gunpoint, but a police helicopter contacted by Rocky's girlfriend arrives on the scene, warning Nick that he will be shot if he does not release Rocky. As Rocky tries to goad Nick into killing him, Gina gets Nick to back down. Realizing that she can stop Rocky, who is extremely abusive, and save two people who love each other, Rocky's girlfriend admits that Rocky is the murderer, prompting the police to shoot him when he tries to retrieve his gun.

Travelling back on a helicopter, Nick proposes to Gina. Gina accepts, with the two mutually agreeing not to go on a honeymoon.

