{{long plot| date= August 2021}}
In December 2002, journalist Mikael Blomkvist, publisher of independent magazine ''Millennium'', loses a libel case involving unproven allegations that he published about billionaire financier Hans-Erik Wennerström, and is sentenced to three months in prison. Lisbeth Salander, a freelance surveillance agent and hacker, is hired by Henrik Vanger, the patriarch of the wealthy Vanger family, to conduct a background check on Blomkvist.

Vanger subsequently hires Blomkvist to investigate the disappearance of his niece, Harriet, who vanished on Children's Day decades earlier in 1966. Vanger believes that Harriet was murdered by a family member. Henrik explains that his brothers—Richard, Gottfried and Harald—are supporters of the Nazi regime. Richard died in 1940, and Gottfried, Harriet's father who is described as a heavy drinker, drowned prior to her disappearance. All remaining family members are suspects, notably Harald due to his still strong Nazi views. Henrik also reveals that someone has been sending him pressed flowers on his birthday every year, something that Harriet did before her disappearance.

Lisbeth's state guardian has a stroke, and she is subsequently placed under the guardianship of Nils Bjurman. He reveals to be controlling of her finances, threatening to send her back to a mental institution unless she obeys him. Lisbeth is attacked by a group of drunk men in the subway, resulting in a broken laptop. She returns to see Bjurman, who forces her to perform fellatio on him in return for money for a new computer, however he does not give her the full amount she requested. The next day, she meets him at his apartment for more money and is handcuffed and raped by Bjurman. Lisbeth later returns, tasers Bjurman, and ties him up. Revealing she recorded the rape, she then proceeds to rape Bjurman with a dildo. She states she will release the footage to the police unless he gives her full control of her finances, provides glowing reports, and signs off as her guardian in a year, afterwards tattooing "I am a sadistic pig and a rapist" on his abdomen. 

Blomkvist moves onto the estate and meets Martin, Harriet's brother who is now head of the Vanger group, and Cecilia, her cousin. During dinner, they both reveal that they suspect Harriet ran away. Later, Blomkvist finds a list of 5 names with numbers attached. Police inspector Morell ascertains that they are not phone numbers, and that the case is unsolvable. Blomkvist notices suspicious pictures of Harriet from the Children's Day parade and with further investigation finds that she may have seen her murderer that day. 

Salander, using her access to Blomkvist's laptop, theorizes that the numbers in Harriet's diary are references to verses in the Book of Leviticus and emails Blomkvist anonymously. Blomkvist figures out that Salander sent the email and hires her as a research assistant. Together, Blomkvist and Salander connect all but one of the names on Harriet's list to murdered women. They are all Jewish names, which intrigues Blomkvist, as the Vanger family has a long history of antisemitism. During the investigation, Blomkvist and Salander become lovers.

They suspect Henrik's reclusive brother Harald to be the murderer, as he is the only other brother alive at the time of her disappearance. Salander searches through Vanger's business records to trace Harald to the crime scenes, while Blomkvist breaks into Harald's house, believing it to be unoccupied. Harald attacks Blomkvist, but Martin appears and saves him. Martin escorts Blomkvist to his home, where Blomkvist reveals what he and Salander have uncovered. Martin then drugs Blomkvist. Salander's search of the company accounts points to Martin and his late father, Gottfried, as having been jointly responsible for the murders. She returns to the cottage to find Blomkvist missing.

Blomkvist wakes to find himself bound in Martin's cellar. Martin explains that Gottfried began teaching him to rape, torture, and kill as a teenager. Martin boasts about raping and murdering women for decades since his father's death. However, he denies killing Harriet, insisting that she disappeared. As Martin is in the process of hanging Blomkvist, Salander appears and attacks him with a golf club. While she frees Blomkvist, Martin flees in his car. Salander gives chase on her motorcycle. When Martin crashes, Salander finds him still alive but paralysed in the vehicle. She walks away as the car catches fire and he burns to death.

Blomkvist and Salander discover that Harriet has been using Anita's name and is still alive in Australia. Blomkvist reunites Harriet with Henrik. Harriet explains the truth about her disappearance and that her father and brother raped and abused her. Harriet notes that her brother was harsher to her than her father and that she knew that remaining on the island would lead to her death at her brother's hands. As a way of letting Henrik know that she was alive, Harriet sent him a pressed flower every year. 

Salander's elderly mother, living in a nursing home, apologises for not choosing a "better papa" for her. Salander then visits Blomkvist in prison and gives him new information on the Wennerström case. From prison, Blomkvist publishes a new story on Wennerström in ''Millennium'' which ruins Wennerström and restores Blomkvist's reputation. Wennerström is then found dead. His offshore bank account in the Cayman Islands is raided by a young woman caught on CCTV, whom Blomkvist recognises as Salander in a blonde wig. The film ends with Salander, now wealthy and living under an assumed identity, as she is walking along a sunny beach promenade.

