Criminals Vic and Danny kidnap a woman named Alice Creed, the only child of a wealthy family. In a secured room, they forcibly strip her of all her clothes, handcuff her to a bed, and gag her – all while wearing jumpsuits and ski masks themselves. After taking pictures of her they put a tracksuit on her and a hood over her head. The men leave to dispose of all three's clothes and send the pictures to Alice's father for ransom. The men refuse to let her out of her shackles, even to go to the toilet, seemingly just to embarrass her. Neither shows emotion while humiliating Alice, but Vic mocks Danny for being less calm.

Vic leaves to make preparations, whilst Danny guards Alice. Alice persuades Danny to uncuff her, then grabs his pistol and fires a warning shot. To keep from being shot, Danny removes his ski mask and reveals he is her former lover. He says he met Vic while in prison and chose her as their victim. Danny plans to double-cross Vic and offers to start a new life with Alice and the money. As Vic returns, Alice agrees to go along with Danny's plan and be tied back up.

Later, when Vic is away again, Alice seduces Danny and handcuffs him to the bed, but finds the door bolted shut when she tries to escape. She finds a mobile phone and dials 999 but is unable to tell the operator where she is. She threatens Danny with his gun for the front door keys. Danny tells her they are in his pocket and knocks her out when she tries to retrieve them. Vic returns and says the exchange is on. Danny leaves the two and goes to the van.

Vic finds the mobile phone and sees the 999 call as well as the bullet hole in the wall. He ungags and threatens her. She screams for Danny, then tells Vic that Danny intends to double-cross him. Vic is shocked by the betrayal. When Danny returns, Vic says he feels something is 'not right', but Danny does not reveal anything. They inject Alice with a sedative and take her to a deserted, rural warehouse where they chain her in a back room. Vic asks Danny for his keys to the locks and drives him to the woods to pick up the ransom. There, Vic confronts Danny and threatens to kill both him and Alice. He says the hole they dug for the ransom is now for Danny. Danny flees, and Vic shoots him. Although wounded, Danny manages to hide. Vic retrieves the ransom elsewhere and returns for Alice. As he tries to inject her again, Danny appears and grabs his gun. In the struggle, Vic reveals to Alice that they were former lovers.

Danny shoots Vic point blank and, to Alice's horror, leaves her in the dark and handcuffed to the railing next to the dying man. However, Vic revives long enough to throw the keys to her. She frees herself and staggers out of the warehouse. Outside, Alice finds a car a short distance up the road, with the ransom on the passenger seat and Danny dead in the driver's seat. As she drives off with the money, the radio reports the news of her disappearance.

