In 2004, Kiryu undergoes repair and modifications after its battle with Godzilla one year earlier,{{efn|As depicted in the film ''Godzilla Against Mechagodzilla''.}} while its remote pilot Akane Yashiro is sent to the United States for further training, with Kyosuke Akiba taking her place should Godzilla return while she is away. However, the Shobijin warn the Japanese government that Godzilla continues returning to the country because they used the original Godzilla's skeleton in Kiryu's construction. If they return the bones to the sea, Mothra will take Kiryu's place in defending Japan. Due to Mothra attacking Japan in 1961,{{efn|As depicted in her self-titled film.}} Prime Minister Hayato Igarashi refuses, but agrees to discontinue Kiryu once it kills Godzilla. Godzilla and Mothra fight, but the former has the upper hand. With the repairs finished, the government deploys Kiryu, but Godzilla knocks both it and Mothra out.

Meanwhile, on Infant Island, twin Mothra larvae hatch from Mothra's egg and rush to help their mother. As lead scientist Yoshito Chujo uses a maintenance hatch to enter and repair Kiryu from its internal backup cockpit, the Japan Xenomorph Self-Defense Forces (JXSDF) and larvae try to hold Godzilla off, but Mothra sacrifices herself to protect the latter from Godzilla's atomic breath while a separate attack warps the maintenance hatch, trapping Yoshito inside Kiryu. Nonetheless, Yoshito completes the repairs, allowing Kiryu to weaken Godzilla. As the larvae bind it in silk and Akiba receives the order to destroy Godzilla, Kiryu's spirit is reawakened by its roar. The cyborg lifts Godzilla and uses its boosters to carry them both out to sea. After Akiba's fellow pilot Azusa Kisaragi blasts the hatch open, Kiryu turns over to let Yoshito escape before it plunges into the ocean and drifts into an underwater trench with Godzilla.

In a post-credits scene, an undisclosed laboratory is shown with canisters containing the DNA of numerous kaiju.{{efn|In the Japanese version, an unidentified voice announces that a "bio-formation" experiment involving an "extinct subject" is about to take place.}}

