Arjun is a young man who enjoys attention from his parents and everyone in the neighbourhood. As the colony he lives doesn't have kids of his age, he wishes to have a girlfriend, where Anupama's "Anu" family moves in. Arjun's family members grow fond of Anu, which sows the seed of jealousy in Arjun. With time, It develops into hatred, but Anu has developed feelings for Arjun. Arjun is poor in academics and is always compared to Anu who is a bright student, which irritates him. 

To escape the torture, Arjun plans to relocate to Dubai, where his sister lives, on the pretext of doing MBA. With the help of his friend's connection, who owns a consultancy, Arjun secures an excellent score in GMAT through cheating. His father throws a party and Arjun is delighted and also relieved about moving away from Anu. Arjun is informed that his application is on waitlist because he has 1 mark less than other two applicants of the top University he applied to, which only has 2 vacant seats. 

Just as he agrees to change his University preference, it is revealed that one of the two better scored students is Anu, which frustrates Arjun. He leaks Anu's abroad study plans to her mother, who doesn't want her to study further but instead tries to convince her to get married. With Anu's strong reaction, it turns into a big fight and eventually leads to Anu agreeing to marriage with a broken heart. On the day of Anu's marriage, she kisses Arjun publicly in front of all the invitees. Being helpless, Arjun marries Anu due to family pressure. 

On their first night, Anu reveals that she overheard a discussion between Arjun and his friends and got to know about Arjun's ill doing that spoiled her study plans. Anu confesses that the marriage was a plan and Arjun has no other option now but to take her abroad with him to the university. He manages to trick the other applicant to withdraw from the top University. The married couple now move to Dubai. In Dubai, Arjun and Anu have a love-hate relationship. One day after coming back from a night party, a mild physical fight starts between two of them, and they eventually end up having sex. 

Anu learns that she’s pregnant and tells Arjun but Arjun is not ready for it as he is not happy in the relationship and asks her to get an abortion. He alleges that Anu is purportedly turning his life into hell by trapping him in marriage and now parenthood. Angered with his allegations, Anu promises that she will divorce him once her studies complete and that she doesn't expect even his slightest involvement in the pregnancy. Sensing the problem between the couple, Arjun and Anu’s parents visit them and try to convince them into building the marriage. 

Although unmoved by their advice, Anu and Arjun decide not to fight as long as their parents stay. Meanwhile, Arjun feels ecstatic when he feels the baby kick from the womb and gradually realises the love Anu has for him, and also develops feelings for Anu recollecting the best moments they had and how she kept up with his hatred so far. When he goes to her to express his love, he realises she already signed the divorce papers and was waiting for him. Arjun is shocked and apologizes and then tells her how much he loved her and the couple reunite, where they live happily after the birth of their daughter.

