After a 17-year absence, Mikey Saber returns to Texas City, Texas, his Gulf Coast hometown. Badly bruised and destitute, Mikey arrives at the modest home shared by Lexi, his estranged wife, and her mother Lil. Mikey begs Lexi and Lil to let him stay at their house. They reluctantly agree but insist that he get a job and perform household chores.

Mikey tries to find work at a diner and a Dollar General store, but is hindered by a long gap in his résumé. After Mikey admits to potential employers that he spent those years working as a porn star in Los Angeles, they refuse to hire him. Desperate, Mikey persuades Leondria, a marijuana dealer, to give him his old job back selling marijuana. Leondria and her daughter June suspect that Mikey will smoke it himself, but after he returns with his earnings, their business arrangement continues.

After sleeping on the couch for several nights, Mikey starts having sex with Lexi. Eventually, she invites him to share her bedroom. Mikey gives Lexi and Lil a month's rent in advance and takes them to a donut shop to celebrate. He becomes smitten with Strawberry, a 17-year-old girl who works at the counter. He returns and persuades her to let him sell marijuana to the construction workers who frequent the shop. Strawberry and Mikey soon start a sexual relationship.

Mikey befriends Lexi's neighbor Lonnie, who is intrigued by Mikey's stories about his porn career and sexual encounters. They visit a strip club and spend time together, but Mikey becomes upset when he discovers Lonnie pretending to be an Army veteran at a local mall. 

Mikey causes Strawberry to break up with Nash, her high-school boyfriend. Nash and his parents confront Mikey in the donut shop parking lot and beat him. Mikey repeatedly tries to persuade Strawberry to travel with him to Los Angeles to pursue a career in pornography. She and Mikey grow closer, causing him to grow more distant from Lexi. When he disappears for a weekend with Strawberry, Lexi grows suspicious and they get into an argument. Mikey berates her and brags about the $3,000 he made selling drugs for Leondria.

While riding in Lonnie's car Mikey causes Lonnie to swerve across traffic at a highway off-ramp, creating a multiple-vehicle collision which results in several injuries. Mikey and Lonnie flee the scene of the accident and Mikey begs Lonnie to hide his involvement in the accident. Mikey remains anxious but Lonnie assumes sole responsibility for the crash when he is arrested.

Using the crash as an excuse, Mikey visits Strawberry at work and asks her to come to Los Angeles with him and start her porn career. She agrees and quits her job. That night, Mikey tells Lexi that he is leaving for California in the morning. Lexi and Lil convince Leondria to send June and her brothers to seize the $3,000 that Mikey earned from selling pot.  Leondria's children confront him while he is sleeping and take the money.  June forces Mikey to leave naked out the bedroom window.  He runs to Leondria's house to beg her to return his money.

Leondria gives Mikey $200 and tells him to leave or face the threat of violence. Humiliated, Mikey leaves with a few meager possessions in a trash bag. After traveling all night on foot to Strawberry’s house, Mikey imagines seeing her dressed in a bikini in her doorway and his eyes well with tears.

