Martin Bristol, a young boy with congenital analgesia, is kidnapped by psychotic and bereaved serial killer Graham Sutter. At an abandoned slaughterhouse once operated by his family, Graham cuts Martin's cheek before butchering a captive young woman in front of him. Martin attempts to escape, but Graham catches him and returns him to the slaughterhouse, where he continues to hold the boy and future female victims captive.

Over the next five years, Graham brutally butchers several young women, forcing Martin to watch as the trauma slowly desensitizes him. Graham, who feels guilt over killing the cattle he cared for at the slaughterhouse, talks and argues with the skull of a bull hung on the wall, apparently seeing it, and numerous others like it,  around the property as some kind of mighty deity. It is strongly implied that Graham was abused by his father and eventually murdered him, keeping his corpse concealed under a sheet in the attic.

After the death of her parents, young Allison Miller comes to live with her paternal uncle Jonathan, her aunt Karen, and her cousin Wendy in Minersville, the same town where Graham commits his crimes. While out for a run, she sees Martin from the window of the supposedly abandoned slaughterhouse next to Graham's farmhouse. When she is almost hit by a truck, she meets a local boy, William, with whom she forms a relationship of sorts. One night, Jonathan intervenes as Allison and William are about to have sex.

The next day, Allison goes to the farmhouse after again seeing Martin in the slaughterhouse window and is captured by Graham. When she doesn't return home, Jonathan drives to the farmhouse, looking for her, but Graham shoots him dead. William, also searching for Allison, sees Jonathan's abandoned car and finds Allison locked inside a cold meat room when he investigates. William attempts to save her, but is killed by Graham. Graham has become fearful of Martin because of his inability to feel pain, and pins his hand to the kitchen table with a knife to prevent him from leaving the slaughterhouse. Allison escapes by pushing a metal rod through a hole in the door and lifting the lock mechanism. She finds Martin with his hand still pinned on the kitchen table and removes the knife before carrying him out of the farmhouse.

Graham takes Jonathan's body to his home, and attacks Karen, who tells Wendy to run. Wendy runs upstairs and hides in her closet, tearfully listening to her mother die. Allison arrives at the house, just as Graham has set it on fire. Graham finds Wendy and decides to use her to replace Martin as his assistant, but Allison interrupts and stabs Graham, causing him to flee. Allison attempts to call 911, but Martin stabs her to death, his mind now completely twisted by years of Graham's abuse. He then kills Wendy before leaving the burning house. Martin returns to the farmhouse and attacks the injured Graham with an axe. Graham thanks Martin before being hacked to death. The next morning, the authorities arrive at the smoldering ruins of the Miller house and rule it an accident.

Martin begins to construct a new skeletal shrine in the farmhouse, with the bull's skull as the head. He then stares out the window, waiting for his next victim.

In a post-credit scene set five years later, a girl named Courtney Harrison flees from an unseen pursuer. She enters the farmhouse and discovers Martin, who is now older, sitting at a table. When she asks for help, Martin slowly turns around, as the film ends.

