This film is about a group of high school students and teachers who are locked in the school after the swimming instructor is murdered. In South Korea, the high school student and swimmer Jeong Tae-yeon (Yoon Seung-ah) is found dead in the pool, apparently a suicide. Two years later, teacher Park Eun-su (Hwang Jung-eum) joins the high school, where Tae-yeon's stepsister Lee Se-Hee (Park Ji-yeon) is haunted by nightmarish visions and is bullied by the student Eom Ji-yun (Choi Ah-jin). Eun-su finds it difficult to earn respect in the classroom and is backed up by an older teacher, Mr. Cha (Kim Su-ro). Se-Hee and her classmates are selected for an elite "study camp" held at the school during the summer break, where 30 students study for their university entrance exams. The school's swimming trainer is murdered in the showers and the words "When an innocent mother is killed, what son would not avenge her death?" are found scrawled on a blackboard. A voice warns the students that they will all be killed unless they can answer who is the murderer and why. The students and teachers find they are locked in the school when more deaths begin to happen.

Several students died of various causes, mainly by brutal murder. Mr. Cha was kidnapped by an unknown figure and trapped in an activated dryer with the temperature increasing rapidly. The students tried to save the teacher by inputting the correct password phrases for the dryer with hints from various photographs. As they almost succeeded, the fire broke out, causing Mr. Cha to be incinerated and to explode due to the heat, panicking the students.

After failing to rescue their teacher, a student notices Ji-yun disappeared. Actually, Ji-yun escapes the site and confesses her sins to Eun-su. In the past, several students made a study group, but at some point, it nearly degenerated, and JK provoked Soo-il to commit sexual violence against Tae-yeon. She resisted heavily, but Eom Ji-yun smashed her head on a water tap in the shower room, leading to her death. Her boyfriend Jung-bum realized this, but the students tried to cover up their criminal act as they were concerned about the humiliation of their ''alma mater'' and their own honor. The students falsely accused Jung-bum of the accident, leading him to be put in mental facilities. This made him and his sister Eun-su covertly plan and commit the serial murders against the students.

Then, Eun-su orders the students to gather in auditorium, where Ji-yun is trapped and prepared to be hanged by noose, and the key for safe containing the cell phone is connected to her. In order to call any help through the cell phone, they should sacrifice her by pulling keys, opening the safe, and making the call in ten minutes. They fight for the call despite Ji-yun's heavy resistance, but several seconds after the cell phone goes out of range, the call has been disconnected with Ji-yun hanged.

Later, Jung-bum sets the school on fire. Kwan-woo devised the idea to escape. He puts a butane cylinder against the other students to escape, but he realizes Se-hee is not there, so he heads to the swimming pool. Jung-bum arrives at the site as well, and with Se-hee, they push themselves into the pool to be drowned in order to avenge her because she turned away the accident and acted as bystander. Se-hee tried to break the chain to no avail, leaving only her to be drowned. However, the ghost of Tae-yeon appears and releases her from the chain, bringing her back to life through CPR done by Kwan-woo and Na-rae. Tae-yeon and Jung-bum slowly disappear through the darkness in the swimming pool.

