Laura and her father Wilson arrive at a cottage in a secluded area to repair it. The owner, Nestor, will put the house on sale. He tells them that the second level is unstable and it is unsafe to go upstairs. They intend to spend the night in the house. Because the windows are nailed shut, the house's interior is dark even during the day.

Laura finds a radio playing a haunting melody, which she turns off. Shortly after, her father goes upstairs to check a noise and Laura hears what appears to be combat. Moments later, she finds her father restrained and murdered downstairs. She cries and hugs his body, getting his blood on herself in the process.

Laura attempts to flee but someone has locked the doors. Armed with a reap hook and a lamp, she stumbles through the house in order to find a way outside. She notices that her father's dead body has been moved into the chair and that someone has placed a puppet on him. Another melody plays, this time from the upper floor. She goes upstairs and turns off another radio. She hears footsteps and hides. An unknown person with a knife and lamp enters the room, then leaves. Laura finds the key to the front door and escapes the house.

After manically running, she stops on the road. Her pursuer approaches but disappears when Laura is almost run over by Nestor. She tells Nestor about the attack but the latter is unconvinced. They search the house and Nestor disappears. Laura's lamp shuts off so she uses an old Polaroid camera to light the room through the camera's flash each time she takes a photo. In the photos, she sees a little girl in a white dress and a young man trying to stab her.

She flees to the next room, where she discovers many photos on a wall and in a baby buggy. They mainly show Nestor and a woman in underwear. She then finds Nestor restrained and injured downstairs. They kiss each other and have a conversation: Nestor tells Laura that he loves her and only called her father in order to see her. Laura mentions his pictures and asks: "Do you miss her? Do you want to tell her something? She is here now." In a mirror, the little girl is visible, appearing to be in the room. During the conversation, Laura becomes more and more aggressive until she finally shouts and says, "You two killed my baby. You're going to die in the manner that my father did."

She sits Nestor in the chair after removing her father's corpse, puts the mysterious puppet on him, and kills him with her reap hook. The ending credits show photos of the past with Laura, Nestor and her father. The film continues, showing Laura burning the pictures and walking through the forest.

