A group of students from Volda University College, Thomas (Glenn Erland Tosterud), Johanna (Johanna Mørck) and their cameraman Kalle (Tomas Alf Larsen), set out to make a documentary about a suspected bear poacher, Hans (Otto Jespersen). At the site of an illegally slain bear they interview local hunters, who comment that the bear tracks look odd, as well as Finn Haugen (Hans Morten Hansen), head of the Norwegian Wildlife Board. Finn dismisses the idea that the bear tracks could have been faked. The students follow Hans in an attempt to secure an interview but he continually rebuffs them. After following him into a forest at night time, they see mysterious flashing lights and hear roars. Hans comes running back, screaming "Troll!" Thomas is attacked and reveals that he was bitten by something. They escape in Hans's Land Rover and discover their own vehicle turned over with the tyres ripped off. Hans admits that it is not bears he is hunting, but trolls. Though sceptical, the students ask if they can join Hans and film his hunt, to which he consents on the condition that they do exactly as he instructs.

The next day Hans makes them disguise themselves with "troll stench" (a slimy concentrate made from "everything you can squeeze out of a troll") and asks if any of them believe in God or Jesus, because a troll can smell a Christian man's blood. Hans wields a "flash gun", a weapon that emits powerful UV-rays to simulate sunlight and turn trolls to stone, though he comments that sometimes the trolls "just explode" depending on how old they are. The students are stunned when Hans flushes out a giant three-headed troll (called a Tusseladd). Hans manages to turn the troll to stone and explains to the students that he only allowed them to come along because he's tired of working for little compensation and wants them to divulge the truth. Finn, who actually works for the Troll Security Service (TSS), arrives with a team to deposit a bear carcass and plant fake tracks, and tells the students that they will not be allowed to keep their tapes. In a series of interviews, Hans reveals that Finn's work is to keep trolls a secret, while his is to kill any that come near populated areas. He also explains that the trolls have been acting aggressively lately and have begun to leave their territories more often than usual, and that he must get a troll blood sample to determine why.

The students accompany Hans on another hunt using live goats on a bridge as bait. Hans successfully obtains a blood sample from a bridge troll (Raglefant) and takes it to a veterinarian who works for the TSS, but finds that it will take several days before any results can be found. Investigating a farm where a number of trees have been uprooted, Hans and the film crew find troll tracks leading into an abandoned mine, the lair of a pack of cave trolls (Dovregubbens). The trolls return unexpectedly and the group is trapped inside. The situation becomes more tense when Kalle confesses that he is, in fact, a Christian. The trolls pick up Kalle's scent and discover the group. In a panic, the group runs for the safety of daylight at the cave entrance, but Kalle is caught and killed before he can escape.

The replacement camerawoman is Malica, a Muslim; Hans is uncertain about how trolls will react to that. Finn demands that Hans head north to troll territory to get the problem under control. The group finds signs of a Jotnar, a giant mountain troll 50–100 metres tall. Thomas falls ill, and they learn that the troll blood sample came back positive for rabies, meaning Thomas has been infected by the bite he received several days earlier.

After several attempts, Hans manages to kill the Jotnar by launching a rocket-like projectile that transforms the troll into stone. Before doing so, he directs the others to find the highway. Finn and his TSS agents arrive to confiscate the students' tapes. Thomas flees with the camera and collapses at the side of a road when the tape cuts out. Just before the cut to black, a truck is seen coming down the road towards the camera. An epilogue tells the audience that none of the students were heard from again. The film ends with a news clip of the Norwegian Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg appearing to admit to the existence of trolls, though the press fails to take notice.<ref name="Eggertson">{{cite web |url=https://bloody-disgusting.com/editorials/24457/interview-andre-ovredal-director-of-trollhunter |title=Interview: Andre Ovredal, Director of 'TrollHunter'!! |first=Chris |last=Eggertsen |work=Bloody Disgusting |date=6 May 2011 |accessdate=12 May 2012}}</ref>

