Jake and Kyra live with their adoptive daughter Mika, as well as Yang, a robotic teenage boy. Jake and Kyra bought Yang, a culture unit, as a way for Mika to connect with her Chinese heritage through sharing stories and facts. Yang becomes unresponsive one day after a family dance competition, but he is no longer under warranty because they purchased him from defunct reseller Second Siblings instead of his original manufacturer, Brothers & Sisters Incorporated. Jake, whose tea shop is struggling, seeks an affordable way to repair Yang.

A local repair store, Quick Fix, runs a diagnostic and finds that Yang's computing core has malfunctioned and needs to be replaced. The technician recommends replacing Yang with an entirely new unit before his body begins to decompose, at a substantial cost. However, as Jake realizes how upset Mika is at the loss of her "brother", he becomes determined to save Yang out of principle, despite Kyra's suggestion that Mika could benefit from experiencing grief. In a flashback, Yang reassures a curious Mika that she is still part of the family despite being adopted.

At the advice of his neighbor, George, Jake takes Yang to Russ, a backstreet technician. He offers to perform an illegal repair of Yang's core against the terms of Brothers & Sisters' user agreement. Russ discovers what he believes to be a hidden camera inside of Yang. Jake takes the "camera" to a museum specialist named Cleo, who tells him that it is, in fact, Yang's memory bank—a device that records each unit's key experiences, which Brothers & Sisters has long denied exists in order to avoid a privacy scandal. Jake watches Yang's "memories", short clips from every day of his life, many of which feature an unknown young blonde woman. The next day, Jake picks Yang up from Russ and take him to Cleo, who attempts a more sophisticated repair of the core. In a flashback, Yang becomes sad about his inability to truly experience life the same way that humans do.

Jake visits locations from Yang's memories to ask about the blonde woman. George's daughter reveals that the woman is Ada, a clone who was secretly visiting Yang when the rest of the family were at work and school. Ada then visits the house, and confirms Jake's suspicions that she and Yang had been in a relationship. Mika continues to struggle with Yang's life being in limbo, and Jake and Kyra decide the time has come to accept his death. They donate him to the museum, and both Mika and Ada say goodbye to his body. In a flashback, Yang and Kyra discuss the improbability of an afterlife.

Jake tracks down Nancy, whom he believes to be Yang's first owner. However, she explains that she also bought Yang from Second Siblings as a refurbished unit before returning him after five days. Jake unlocks more of the memory bank to reveal Yang's true first life, in which he developed a relationship with another woman named Ada. This original Ada cared for the aging mother in Yang's first family, but later died in a car accident and was cloned. The cloned Ada tells Jake that she had been told the person in Yang's memories was her great-aunt, but that Yang never revealed this original relationship.

Kyra and Jake agree that they don't want Yang's body to go on display at the museum, but that his memories must be preserved and shared, as his existence mattered to many people. That night, Mika tells Jake that she does not want to say goodbye to Yang. Jake agrees, and Mika begins to sing a song previously heard in one of Yang's memories.

