In 1719 in the Great Plains, Naru, a young Comanche woman trained as a healer, dreams of becoming a great hunter like her brother Taabe. While tracking deer she witnesses strange lights in the sky, which she believes to be a Thunderbird and a sign she is ready to become a hunter, but is actually a Predator dropship. Later, a member of the tribe is taken by a lion. Naru accompanies the search party, which retrieves the wounded man while Taabe stays behind to hunt the prey. Finding large, unusual tracks and a skinned rattlesnake, Naru circles back with Paake and reunites with Taabe. The three set a trap for the lion but it kills Paake.

Naru faces off with the lion but is knocked unconscious when she is distracted by strange sounds and lights in the distance. She awakens at home, having been carried back by Taabe. He later returns to the village carrying the animal, earning him the title of War Chief. Convinced of a greater threat in the woods, Naru departs with her dog Sarii. She stumbles into a bog pit but narrowly escapes before being attacked by a grizzly bear. The bear corners her but is then killed by the Predator, giving Naru time to escape before running into a group of Comanche sent to find her. The Predator, which Naru calls a "Mupitsl" after the Comanche demon of legend, ambushes and kills the men in combat, while Naru is caught in a foothold trap.

French voyageurs find and cage Naru and Sarii. Their interpreter, Raphael Adolini, questions Naru about the Predator, whom the Frenchmen have encountered before. When she refuses to talk, the lead voyageur reveals that he has Taabe captive and tortures him before using both siblings as bait for the Predator, which the French are intent on capturing. The Predator kills most of the Frenchmen while Taabe and Naru escape. Naru rescues Sarii from the camp and stumbles across a dying Raphael, who teaches her how to use his flintlock pistol{{efn|The engraving on the gun reveals it is the same weapon that a Predator gives to Mike Harrigan in 1997 at the end of ''Predator 2'' (1990).<ref>{{cite web|url=https://www.vulture.com/2022/08/prey-nods-to-predator-2-with-that-raphael-adolini-pistol.html|title=Why That Old-Timey Pistol at the End of Prey Looks Familiar|first=Richard |last=Newby|work=Vulture|date=August 5, 2022|accessdate=November 6, 2023}}</ref>}} in exchange for treatment for his severed leg. Naru gives him herbs that reduce his body heat to stanch the bleeding. When the Predator arrives, Raphael plays dead. Naru realizes that, due to his reduced heat, the Predator cannot see him. After it accidentally steps on Raphael, he screams and is killed.

Taabe arrives on horseback to rescue Naru. Together they weaken the Predator, but it kills Taabe. Naru flees and finds the surviving lead Frenchman. She captures him and uses him as bait. Consuming the herbs to hide her body heat, she uses Raphael's pistol to ambush the Mupitsl after it has killed the voyageur, knocking off its mask, which she knows is used to direct its spear gun. She steals the device and lures the Predator into the bog, where she positions the mask to face the pit. She battles the Predator, which becomes mired in the bog. It fires the spear gun at Naru and misses; the mask guides the projectile back to the Predator, killing it. Naru severs its head and paints her face with its glowing green blood. She returns with its head to her village, where she is declared the new War Chief. Naru informs her tribe that it is time for them to move.

In a post-credits scene, the narrative is summarized in a series of ledger art paintings that ends with a depiction of three mysterious vessels descending towards the tribe.

