In the futuristic city of San Fransokyo (a portmanteau of San Francisco and Tokyo), 14-year-old high school graduate and robotics prodigy Hiro Hamada spends his time competing in illegal underground robot fights. In an effort to get Hiro out of this dangerous lifestyle, his older brother Tadashi takes him to his research lab at the San Fransokyo Institute of Technology. Here, Hiro meets Tadashi's friends Go Go, Wasabi, Honey Lemon, and Fred, as well as Tadashi's creation, Baymax — an inflatable healthcare robot — and his mentor, Professor Robert Callaghan. Hiro applies to the university, impressing the school's showcase with his project: a swarm of tiny microbots that can link together in any configuration using a neural transmitter. He is accepted, but the celebration is short-lived when a fire erupts. Tadashi rushes inside to save Callaghan, but dies after an explosion.

Two weeks later, Hiro, who has isolated himself in grief, inadvertently activates Baymax. They follow his only remaining microbot to an abandoned warehouse, where they discover someone has been mass-producing the microbots. A man wearing a Kabuki mask attacks them; Hiro suspects the man set the fire to cover up the theft of his microbots. Determined to avenge his brother's death, he equips Baymax with armor and a chip programmed with martial arts for defense. Baymax summons Tadashi's friends, and the group is attacked by the masked man, but Baymax saves them. Hiro upgrades Baymax's armor and the group weaponizes their own inventions to take on the masked man.

They track the masked man to tech giant Alistair Krei's abandoned island lab, which was used for teleportation research. However, when a test pilot disappeared inside a portal, it led the government to shut down Krei's experiment. The masked man attacks them, but Hiro knocks off his mask, revealing him to be  Professor Callaghan, who was thought to be dead; however, he had actually escaped using Hiro's microbots. Enraged that Tadashi died in vain, Hiro removes Baymax's healthcare chip and orders him to kill Callaghan. His friends stop Baymax, allowing Callaghan to escape and leaving Hiro angry.

Back at home, Hiro tries to remove the healthcare chip again, but Baymax blocks his access port and shows him footage of Tadashi's tests during Baymax's development, reminding Hiro that his brother's goal was to help others, not harm them. Hiro apologizes to Baymax and his friends; they discover that the lost test pilot was Callaghan's daughter, Abigail.

Having stolen the microbots to seek revenge on Krei, Callaghan reactivates the teleportation portal to destroy Krei's headquarters, but Hiro and his friends save Krei. Baymax detects Abigail alive inside the unstable portal, so he and Hiro jump in and find her trapped in hyper-sleep. Baymax is struck by debris, forcing Hiro to leave him behind. After a heartfelt goodbye, Baymax uses his rocket fist to propel Hiro and Abigail out of the portal before it is destroyed. In the aftermath, Callaghan is arrested.

Hiro starts attending university with his friends. One day, he discovers Baymax's healthcare chip clenched in the rocket fist. He rebuilds Baymax, and they and their friends continue to protect the city as a team of high-tech superheroes, known as Big Hero 6.

In a post-credits scene, Fred stumbles upon a secret superhero lair in his family mansion and is reunited with his father.

