In 2067, humanity is facing extinction following a global famine caused by ecocide.<ref>{{Cite book |title=Avenging nature: the role of nature in modern and contemporary art and literature |date=2020 |publisher=Lexington Books |isbn=978-1-7936-2144-3 |editor-last=Valls Oyarzun |editor-first=Eduardo |series=Ecocritical theory and practice |location=Lanham Boulder NewYork London |chapter=Chapter 17: Ecocritical Archaelogies of Global Ecocide in Twenty-First-Centurty Post-Apocalyptic Films |editor-last2=Gualberto Valverde |editor-first2=Rebeca |editor-last3=Malla García |editor-first3=Noelia |editor-last4=Colom Jiménez |editor-first4=María |editor-last5=Cordero Sánchez |editor-first5=Rebeca}}</ref> As a result, ex-NASA pilot, Joseph Cooper, is forced to work as a farmer, with his son Tom, daughter Murph and father-in-law Donald.

After odd occurrences in her room, Murph arrives at the conclusion that a ghost, trapped in her bookshelf, is trying to communicate the word 'stay' to her. Cooper seeks a scientific explanation for the gravitational anomaly and deduces a pattern that resolves into GPS coordinates. Following the address, he and Murph arrive at a secret NASA facility, headed by Professor Brand. NASA is distrusting of Cooper initially, but Brand enlists Cooper's help for their mission, believing him to have been led there by the same entity - a supernatural, extra-terrestrial "them" - who decades ago placed a mysterious wormhole, close to humanity's reach near the planet Saturn. NASA's objective is to follow up on earlier missions through the wormhole and find an exoplanet suited to support human life. Their "Plan A" is to eventually transport people off the dying Earth to the other planet (using a yet-to-be-solved gravity equation), failing which, "Plan B" would use embryos to start a new extra-terrestrial colony, letting Earth's original population perish. 

Believing Plan A will save Murph's generation, Cooper bids farewell to his family and embarks on the mission aboard the spacecraft ''Endurance'', along with a crew of three scientists: Romilly, Doyle, and Brand’s daughter Amelia, and two robot assistants TARS and CASE. After reaching their destination, the crew investigates three planets orbiting a supermassive black hole, Gargantua, each previously checked by a NASA scientist-explorer. Romilly remains in orbit to study Gargantua while the others take a Ranger craft to the first planet, an ocean world of shallow water assigned to explorer Laura Miller. Upon arriving at Miller's beacon and finding debris, they realize she was killed by colossal tidal waves generated by Gargantua's gravity. Doyle is swept away by a huge wave, and Cooper and Amelia narrowly escape the next. They return to the ''Endurance'' after only a couple of hours in their perspective, yet 23 years have passed aboard ''Endurance'' due to the time dilation caused by Gargantua's gravity. Back on Earth, Murph has become a scientist and begun working with the elder Brand.

The second planet's mission fails as well, as the crew realizes that the planet's explorer, Mann, whom they awaken from cryostasis, had been transmitting false signals about the ice world's habitability so that someone would rescue him. Mann turns on the crew, first attempting to kill Cooper, then hijacking a Ranger so that he can dock with the ''Endurance'' and take control. Romilly is killed by an explosion planted by Mann at the base, and Mann is himself killed after failing to properly dock in space. Cooper and Amelia approach the damaged ''Endurance'' in a Lander, and regain control of the spacecraft. On Earth, a dying Brand confesses to Murph that he lied about the viability of Plan A, dooming Earth's population knowingly. He believed that his gravity equation 
was unsolvable, as it lacked vital information able to be obtained only from inside a black hole's singularity. Murph is distraught that her father left her to die, but resolves to find a solution to Brand's work.

Meanwhile, Cooper devises a plan to initiate a slingshot maneuver around Gargantua, propelling the ''Endurance'' onwards to the third and final planet, assigned to Dr. Wolf Edmunds. To shed extra weight, he sacrifices himself and TARS by detaching from the spacecraft and falling into the black hole, setting up Amelia to safely reach Edmunds' planet. Falling past the event horizon, Cooper finds himself inside a four-dimensional tesseract where time is physically presented. Seeing past moments from Murph's childhood bedroom, he tries to contact her by manipulating items in the room with gravity. Cooper deduces this construct has been created by future humans able to interact with five dimensions - "them" - in order for him to send messages he received in the past, such as the word 'stay'. With TARS's help, Cooper relays the information Murph needs to solve the gravity equation in the form of Morse code on her watch. The tesseract closes, and he and TARS are returned to the orbit of Saturn. Cooper is rescued and brought to an O'Neill Cylinder, where he tearfully reunites with an elderly Murph, who has used the gravity equation to accomplish Plan A and enable humanity's exodus from Earth. Nearing death, she advises him to seek out Amelia. Cooper and TARS set off again to reunite with Amelia. On Edmunds' planet, Amelia buries the deceased Edmunds before removing her helmet to breathe.

