At the headquarters of the League of Assassins, Ra's al Ghul grooms Damian Wayne, the young son of his daughter Talia and Batman, to succeed him. The League is ambushed by a group of assassins led by Slade Wilson, Ra's al Ghul's initial choice for successor before Damian's birth. Ra's is defeated and fatally injured by Slade, dying before he can heal his injuries with the Lazarus Pit. After the incident, Talia takes Damian to Gotham City to meet his father and remain in his care while she and the League deal with Slade. The aggressive, highly independent Damian objects and frequently disobeys his father's orders in an attempt to seek out Slade and avenge Ra's himself. After Nightwing accosts him for sneaking out and brutally attacking an associate of Slade, Batman berates Damian for his recklessness and willingness to kill. Batman then has Damian don the mantle of Robin to teach him discipline.

Slade, now calling himself Deathstroke, captures Talia as well as Dr. Kirk Langstrom, a scientist previously working with Ra's. Commissioner Gordon warns Batman about an abandoned stadium believed to house Deathstroke's men; after infiltrating the stadium, Batman and Damian attempt to question Langstrom, who initially refuses to leave as Deathstroke is holding his family hostage. When Damian becomes violently impatient and inadvertently alerts the enemy to their arrival, the group is confronted by a swarm of Man-Bats, which Langstrom explains is part of Deathstroke's plan to create superhuman flying assassins. While Nightwing works with Langstrom on an antidote for the Man-Bats, Batman and Damian set off to rescue Langstrom's family. Batman deduces that Talia has been abducted and Damian is relayed her location via a ransom video given to Langstrom's daughter.

Nightwing learns that Deathstroke is operating in an oil rig off the Scottish coast, and while Batman is distracted, Damian goes to the rig alone to rescue his mother. He finds Deathstroke and Talia in an underwater base with a swarm of Man-Bats and another Lazarus Pit, which Deathstroke intends to sell for profit. Deathstroke attempts to kill Damian, mortally wounding Talia as she shields her son from a gunshot. Batman arrives to assist and heals Talia in the Lazarus Pit, while Nightwing and Langstrom cure the Man-Bats.

After a brutal fight, Damian manages to defeat Deathstroke, but refuses to kill him because it is not what his father would do. The underwater base is destroyed when the Man-Bats, overwhelmed by sonar devices placed by Batman, break the glass elevator shaft and flood the base. Batman, Talia and Damian escape to safety, but the unconscious Deathstroke is left behind.{{refn|group=N|The character returns in the 2017 film ''Teen Titans: The Judas Contract''.}} Discussing what to do with Damian now that Deathstroke has been neutralized, Batman believes that Damian should stay with him and remain as Robin while Talia still wishes to recreate the League with Batman and Damian at her side. Talia relents and allows Damian to stay in Gotham with his father, but states her intention to return for him someday.

During the credits, the fight between Damian and Nightwing is shown.

