In the year 1600, in North Africa, English privateer Solomon Kane leads his ship's crew into battle against the Ottoman defenders of a fortress town. After defeating the defenders, Kane and his men raid the fortress, where most of the crew are killed by demons. Kane fights his way to the throne room, but, before he can loot the riches, he is confronted by the "Devil's Reaper", a demon who tells him his soul is forfeit to Satan after his life of sin. Solomon rejects his fate and jumps out of a window to escape.

One year later, Solomon has returned to England and found sanctuary in a monastery, renouncing violence and donating his wealth to the Church in hopes of finding redemption. After a prophetic dream, the abbot expels Kane. On the road, Kane is ambushed by robbers who mock his vow of pacifism and leave him for dead. He is found and treated by the Crowthorns, a Puritan family traveling west to the New World. They find a witch, who marks Meredith Crowthorn. Later, they are ambushed by followers of sorcerer Malachi who kidnap Meredith and kill her father and brothers. Kane renounces his vows and swears to rescue Meredith.

Kane battles Malachi's followers across the countryside, rescuing many captives but not finding Meredith. On his journey, he meets a deranged priest who explains Malachi's followers are taking the weaker survivors of their raids as slaves and corrupting the strong into soldiers. The priest tries to feed Kane to his parishioners, who have become ghouls, but Kane escapes, only to face the robbers who attacked him earlier, now corrupted servants of Malachi. He kills two robbers and interrogates the survivor, who says Meredith is dead. Kane throws the robber to the ghouls, and, believing his quest for redemption has failed, drinks to excess at a country inn. Former shipmates recognize him and try to recruit him as a leader of a resistance against Malachi, but Kane refuses. The inn is attacked by Malachi's followers, led by his lieutenant the Masked Rider. They crucify the leaders of the resistance, including Kane. As Kane hangs on the cross, Meredith cries out his name from her cage in the back of the raiders' wagon; Kane realizes he still has a chance to save her and pulls himself free. Before Malachi's remaining men can finish him, they are killed by survivors of the resistance, who take Kane to safety. Kane is healed by a pagan woman and becomes anxious to confront the raiders.

Malachi used to be a healer before making a bargain with the Devil. He now lives in Kane's ancestral home, from which Kane had been expelled in his youth after defying his father. Kane leads the rebels into the castle via an underground passage, and, as they fight Malachi's minions, Kane heads for the dungeons and frees many captives. There, he finds his father, who reveals the Masked Rider is Kane's older brother Marcus, whom Kane thought he had accidentally killed after his banishment. Instead, Marcus was rendered comatose, and when healers failed to revive him, his father turned to Malachi. Disfigured and turned to Malachi's will, Marcus became the Masked Rider. Solomon reluctantly kills his father at his request, then heads to the throne room to confront Malachi. Kane finds Meredith in a cage, and as she warns him of a trap, Marcus stabs him in the back. Kane tries to reason with Marcus, but they engage in a duel; Kane wins after setting Marcus on fire and decapitating him. Malachi uses Meredith's blood to release a demon sent to claim Kane's soul, but Kane shoots Malachi dead and sacrifices himself to close the portal. Both Malachi and the creature are sucked back through the closing portal, leaving Solomon unconscious on the floor. He awakens and explains to Meredith that he has finally redeemed his soul. Kane buries his father and brother and reunites Meredith with her mother. He assumes a new mission: to roam the Earth combating the forces of darkness.

