In the medieval era, a witch named Mamba is tortured and skinned alive in punishment for her crimes. Her skin and organs are then used to make a cursed game. A player who wins the game is granted a wish; however, a player losing the game is killed in a fashion predicted by the game.

In the present day, Jason (Mike Vogel), while shopping with his friend Tomas (Iman Nazemzadeh) and Tomas' girlfriend Lisa (Lindsay Caroline Robba), acquires the board game from a disabled shop owner called Malek (Alex O'Dogherty). The three friends travel back to Tomas' beachfront house, and at night a party occurs on the beach. Jason meets Erica (Eliza Dushku) before it begins to rain, causing most of the partygoers to leave. Erica suggests that the remaining friends—Jason, Tomas, Lisa, Elena (Naike Rivelli), Miguel (Ander Pardo), Pablo (Boris Martinez), and herself—play the game, to which they all agree.

However, Pablo is soon eliminated and takes Tomas' car to go get beer. On his travels, Pablo stops to urinate, but falls over the edge of a cliff. He survives the fall, but a group of crabs then attacks him, gouging out his eyes and killing him. Meanwhile, Miguel, Lisa, Elena, and Tomas also lose the game, before Detective Izar (Gary Piquer) arrives and informs the group of Pablo's death, cutting the game short.

The group attends Pablo's funeral, where Erica realizes that his death mirrors the game's prediction. Soon after, Tomas, Lisa, and Miguel travel to an empty wood-cutting factory belonging to Miguel’s family to have a photo shoot. While Lisa is modeling, she begins to feel unwell; she stops the photo shoot and leaves with Tomas. After their departure, Miguel is left alone and becomes vulnerable to the danger of snakes. He attempts to climb a stack of logs, but a snake bites him, and he falls into a large group of snakes that kill him.

Meanwhile, Jason and Erica start a romance. While they are in Jason's car, they witness ghostly versions of Pablo and Miguel, before receiving a call from Tomas telling them of Miguel's death. Jason and Erica meet Tomas, Lisa, and Elena at Tomas' apartment, where they tell the others that they suspect that the group members are dying because of the game. Tomas, Lisa, and Elena remain skeptical, however. After Jason, Erica, and Elena have left, Lisa becomes more ill. Tomas looks after her, before the pair go to bed. The following morning, Lisa has aged into an old woman and is rushed to the hospital.

Jason, Erica, and Elena arrive at the hospital and tell Detective Izar their theory about the game. They then go in to see Lisa. Elena becomes distraught at her appearance and about her friends' deaths, and leaves despite Tomas' attempts to get her to stay. Lisa soon dies, prompting Jason, Erica, and Tomas to seek answers from Malek.

They find Malek at his home, but he is no longer disabled. He explains to them that he won the game and wishes to no longer be disabled. Meanwhile, Elena is traveling home to Milan in her car when she is involved in a car accident. Her car leaks gas, and a broken electrical wire ignites it, burning her to death. Jason, Erica, and Tomas go to Jason's house, where they find Detective Izar looking for the game. Jason and Erica escape with it, but Tomas is caught by the detective, who puts him in the trunk of his car. Later, Jason receives a call from the detective demanding the game in return for Tomas, but Tomas attempts to escape, and the detective shoots him dead.

At Tomas' beachfront house, Jason and Erica decide to play the game in the hope that they can win and wish for it to be a week in the past, so that their friends will be alive. Erica is eliminated, and realizes that her death will involve the sea. Jason wins the game, and will get his wish as long as he passes the game onto another person. Jason and Erica go to bed, but Erica discovers she must die for Jason to get his wish, so she enters the sea. Jason wakes up and rushes out to save her, but Detective Izar shows up, takes away the game and leaves with it. Erica then emerges from the sea and reveals herself to be Mamba, granting Jason his wish that they have never played the game. However, Jason and his friends now become trapped, forced to relive the week again and again.

