Casey Beldon has nightmarish hallucinations of strange-looking dogs in the neighborhood and an evil child with bright blue eyes following her around. While babysitting Matty, her neighbor's son, she finds him showing his infant sibling its reflection in a mirror. Matty attacks Casey, smashing the mirror on her head, and tells her: "Jumby wants to be born now". She puts him to bed and leaves in shock.

Casey's friend Romy tells her of a superstition that newborns should not see their reflections in the mirror for at least a year because otherwise they will die soon. Casey's eyes begin to change color; a doctor asks if she is a twin, and explains the change as tetragametic chimerism and heterochromia, and that it is completely normal. Her neighbor's infant dies, supporting the superstition.

Casey's father admits that she had a twin brother years ago who died while he was in the womb when her umbilical cord strangled him, and whom he and Casey's late mother, Janet, had nicknamed "Jumby". She begins to suspect that the spirit is haunting her and this is the spirit of her unborn twin, wanting to be born so it can enter the world of the living as evil.

Casey meets Sofi Kozma (whom she later learns is her grandmother). Sofi explains that as a child she had a twin brother, Barto, who died during Nazi experiments conducted by Dr. Josef Mengele in Auschwitz during World War II. A dybbuk brought the brother back to life to use as a portal into the world of the living. Kozma killed her twin to stop the spirit, and now it haunts her family for revenge, which is why Casey's mother became insane and committed suicide.

Kozma gives Casey a hamsa amulet for protection, instructs her to destroy all mirrors and burn the shards, and refers her to Rabbi Joseph Sendak, who can perform a Jewish exorcism to remove the dybbuk out of her soul. Sendak does not believe Casey's story until he sees a dog with its head twisted upside-down in his synagogue. The dybbuk kills Kozma, then Romy soon after. Casey and her boyfriend Mark both see the spirit after it kills Romy and realize that it's getting stronger.

Sendak, Mark, Episcopal priest Arthur Wyndham, and other volunteers begin the exorcism, but the dybbuk attacks them and several are wounded or killed. The spirit, having possessed the priest, chases Casey and Mark. Mark knocks Wyndham unconscious but gets possessed. Casey stabs Mark in the neck with the amulet. Sendak arrives and he and Casey complete the exorcism. The rite draws the dybbuk out of the human world, but Mark falls and dies during the separation.

Casey mourns her boyfriend but wonders why the dybbuk suddenly became active in her life now and why it didn't attack her earlier. She takes a pregnancy test and learns that she is pregnant with Mark's twins.

