Coco and his pregnant wife Pipi move into a Buenos Aires apartment complex. As they bicker and shop for food at the local market, they fail to notice the increasingly panicked crowds around them. When they return to their apartment, it is quarantined by the government.  Coco, too apathetic to care about the looming threat of a pandemic, attempts to sleep through the disaster, but he is quickly annoyed by the loss of Internet service and television.

His neighbor Horatio, a paranoid survivalist whose reinforced apartment doubles as a bunker, slowly recruits Coco as an ally against other tenants. With Coco's help, Horatio sets traps throughout the building, which Coco negligently trips several times. Still unconvinced of the danger of the situation, Coco halfheartedly submits to Horatio's demands that he wear a hazmat suit, carry a pistol, and watch a survival training video that suggests the pandemic may be a plot by the New World Order.

Zanutto, an elderly man who is suspected of being sick by other tenants, is perceived as a weak target that they can prey upon. After using a shotgun to dispatch the tenants who came to harm him, Zanutto becomes paranoid, which leads him to preemptively pursue the remaining tenants. Horatio convinces Coco to leave Pipi and help him confront Zanutto, but Coco proves to be an inept ally. After a tense shootout, Zanutto slashes Horatio, but Horatio mortally stabs Zanutto. Zanutto and Coco work out a truce, and Zanutto asks Coco to watch his dachshund dog before he crawls into his car and succumbs to the knife wound. Soon after Horatio and Coco go scavenging out of the complex, and finally Coco proves his worth by defending Horatio against armed men who attack the duo, shooting and killing the aggressors.

Horatio, visibly weakened from his wound, and worried about his contact with a sick and contagious Zanutto, tells Coco that he believes he is infected and asks him to take care of his daughter and to take her and Pipi out of the city, to a secret hideout Horatio made. Horatio reveals the location of the hideout, but Coco does not feel ready to take over Horatio's lead. Coco's refusal and indifference enrages Horatio, who now blames Coco as to just have been using him to survive. Horatio stabs Coco, hoping that Coco will kill him before he succumbs to the disease. Despite his wound Coco flees from Horatio, and the Chinese father of the family that was presumed to be absent from the building suddenly appears and shoots Horatio through the neck. While dying in the building's stairwell Horatio smiles satisfied, having avoided a ghastly death from the disease. Coco, the Chinese family, and the remaining survivors of the complex use Horatio's armored vehicle to make their way to Horatio's hideout.

