Superman has been missing for five years, ever since he traveled to the location where astronomers believed they discovered the remains of Krypton. His nemesis, Lex Luthor, has been recently released from prison and married a rich widow to obtain her fortune upon her death. Having failed to find any surviving Kryptonians, Superman returns to Earth and resumes his job at the ''Daily Planet'' in Metropolis as his alter-ego Clark Kent. There, he learns that the woman he loves, Lois Lane, is now engaged to Perry White's nephew Richard, with whom she has a 5-year-old son named Jason. She has won the Pulitzer Prize for her article "Why the World Doesn't Need Superman." Luthor travels to the Fortress of Solitude and steals Kryptonian crystals, which he uses for an experiment that causes a power outage on the East Coast. The power loss interferes with the flight test of a Space Shuttle to be launched into space from its piggy-back mounting on an airliner occupied by Lois Lane, who is covering a story. Clark flies into action as Superman and stops the plane from crashing onto a baseball stadium.

The world rejoices at Superman's return, though he has difficulty coping with the fact that those he was once close to have all moved on from him. When Superman gets distracted by an out-of-control vehicle, a diversion involving Luthor's henchwoman Kitty Kowalski, Luthor steals Kryptonite from the Metropolis Museum of Natural History. Perry assigns Lois to interview Superman, while Clark investigates the blackout. Lois and Jason inadvertently board Luthor's yacht and are captured after Lois decides to hold interest in the blackout story, which she connects to Luthor's experiment. He reveals to them his plan to use one of the stolen Kryptonian crystals, which he has combined with the Kryptonite, to grow a new landmass in the Northern Atlantic Ocean that will supplant the continental United States and kill millions of people.

Seeing Jason seemingly have a slight reaction to Kryptonite, Luthor asks Lois who Jason's father really is; Lois asserts that the father is Richard. The crystal begins to create Luthor's landmass while Lois attempts to escape but is attacked by a henchman. However, she is saved by Jason, who throws a piano at the man and kills him, thus confirming Superman is his father. Meanwhile, Superman attempts to minimize the destruction in Metropolis caused by the new landmass' growth, and Richard pilots a sea plane to rescue Lois and Jason. Superman soon arrives to help and flies off to find Luthor.

Upon confronting Luthor, Superman is weakened by the landmass as it is filled with Kryptonite, allowing Luthor and his henchmen to brutalize and torture him. Superman is stabbed with a shard of Kryptonite by Luthor, falls into the ocean and is left to drown, only to be rescued by Lois and Richard. After Lois removes the Kryptonite from his back, Superman regains his strength from the sun and lifts the landmass after putting layers of earth between him and the Kryptonite, while Luthor and Kitty escape in their helicopter. Unwilling to let millions die, Kitty tosses away the crystals Lex stole from the Fortress of Solitude before their helicopter runs out of fuel, leaving them stranded on a deserted island.

Superman pushes the landmass with the crystals into space. Weakened by the Kryptonite, he crashes back to Earth. At the hospital, after removing more Kryptonite from Superman's body, doctors learn they cannot penetrate his skin with their surgical tools, and he remains in a coma. While visiting Superman, Lois whispers something into his ear  and kisses him. Superman awakens and visits a sleeping Jason, to whom he recites the last speech of his father Jor-El as he sleeps. As Lois starts writing another article titled "Why the World Needs Superman", Superman reassures her  he is now back to stay and flies off to low orbit, where he gazes down at the world once again.

