In the mid-21st century, an accident occurs in an illegal U.S. biotechnological laboratory, where they tried to create super-soldiers to subjugate the 3rd world, but the project goes wrong. As a result, part of the Earth's population becomes infected with a virus that overwrites and replaces DNA, mutating into hemophages, creatures with vampire fangs that are stronger, faster and smarter than humans, but have very short lifespans due to genetic unravelling.

Humanity starts a war against the hemophages, and they subsequently go underground. As law enforcement agencies are unable to stop the infection, sovereign nations collapsed, human rights are abolished, and due to the state of emergency on the planet, governments establish the ArchMinistry, a powerful corporation and joint world government that usurps the UN and WHO. Hemophage supersoldier Violet Jat Shariff is part of the rebel resistance underground, looking for ways to fight back. 

Violet is tasked with stealing supposedly human-made anti-mutant weapons. Using her superpowers, she alone on a motorcycle attacks the center ("Blood Bank"), where a superweapon is hidden that can destroy hemophages. However, the 9-year-old boy Six turns out to be in the weapons container&nbsp;– a clone of Vice Cardinal Ferdinand Daxus (president of the world) and a carrier of a virus dangerous for hemophages. Violet delivers the boy to the base, but, in a fit of sentimentality, prevents him from being killed by the hemophages.

Violet and her allies plan to create a vaccine that would return her and the hemophages to the human world, but the vice-cardinal's special forces and the hemophages are after her. It is revealed that majority of hemophages have decided to collude with the vice-cardinal, who himself turns out to be a secret hemophage. In the resistance labs, Violet learns that Six does not pose a danger to the hemophages, but for the vice-cardinal he has a mysterious value. Violet eventually learns that Daxus wants to increase his wealth through a new epidemic. an antidote for which people will need to buy daily. Six is the key to these insidious designs. She later finds out that it was Daxus who, in the past, once worked as a laboratory assistant, deliberately arranged an accident in the laboratory in order to subsequently take advantage of the situation to lead the world government. Violet goes through multiple battles, rescuing Six and reviving him as a hemophage, before managing to kill Daxus. Violet swears to protect the world from the hatred in society as she and Six ride off into the sunset.

