In 3000, Earth is a desolate wasteland. The Psychlos, a brutal race of giant humanoid aliens, have ruled the planet for 1,000 years, and use human slave labor to strip its minerals and other resources, with a special desire for gold. A few primitive hunter-gatherer tribes of humans live in freedom in remote, hidden areas, but after ten centuries of Psychlo oppression, they have abandoned any hope of regaining control of their planet. Jonnie Goodboy Tyler rejects this universal hopelessness and leaves his tribe in the Rocky Mountains on a journey of exploration where he meets with two nomad hunters who attempt to take his recently foraged rabbits. The two nomads relate a story of how the gods became angered with men for abusing their power and turned some humans to stone in a nearby city (these stone effigies being remnants of company mascots and mannikins in department stores). A Psychlo raiding party interrupts their dinner, resulting in a short chase with one of the nomads jumping to escape their pursuers. He breaks his leg and is summarily executed, while Jonnie and Carlo (one of the nomads) are captured and transported to a slave camp in the ruins of Denver, Colorado, the Psychlos' principal base of operations. A massive dome over the base protects the Psychlos from Earth's atmosphere, which is toxic to them.

At the camp, they meet Terl, the Psychlo security chief, and his deputy, Ker. Terl's superiors have had him reassigned to his remote Earth outpost indefinitely following unexplained incidents involving "the Senator's daughter". He plans to bribe his way back to the Psychlo home planet by illegally mining gold in areas of high radioactivity. Psychlos avoid such areas because radiation reacts explosively with the gas mixture that they breathe. Terl observes that Jonnie is a resourceful human (after numerous escape attempts and a rebellious nature) and selects him to lead the mining operation. Jonnie acquires a comprehensive knowledge of human history, literature, and learns the Psychlo's language in a Psychlo rapid-learning machine, narrated by a previously conquered alien species. During a work detail, he and other slaves video-record Terl and Ker discussing the plan to mine gold, then attempt to take Terl and Ker prisoner with stolen weapons (although they are unloaded), telling them to surrender and procure a shuttle for them in the Psychlo language. However, they are quickly disarmed by a now-impressed Terl. Sensing the defiance in Jonnie, Terl brings him to the Library of Congress and allows him to read as many texts as he wishes before relaying the story that when the Psychlos attacked the planet in the early 21st century, they defeated all of humanity's advanced machines and weaponry in only nine minutes. Jonnie spends time in the library and is particularly inspired by the Declaration of Independence before being abruptly returned to the Denver slave camp.

Terl gives Jonnie a party of slaves and a Psychlo flying shuttle and orders him to find gold. During a demonstration of his shooting prowess (shooting legs off cows in an open field), Terl threatens Jonnie that escape is impossible for him and the other slaves. However, another group of nomads ambush Terl, disarming him. Jonnie grabs the Psychlo's weapon and holds Terl at gunpoint, allowing the other nomads to escape (they intended to kill Terl) and gives the weapon back to Terl, telling him that he is surely smart enough to disarm him before he could fire anyway. During the mining of a gold seam, the nomad group from earlier joins Jonnie's group in a coordinated effort to remove the Psychlos from the planet. Using maps from the Library of Congress, Jonnie locates a plentiful supply at the long-abandoned Fort Knox. He also discovers an abandoned underground military base with working Harrier jump jets, weapons (including nuclear weapons), and fuel. Terl takes delivery of the first shipment of gold, curious as to why it is in bars, to which Jonnie carefully relates that raw ore would be unsuitable for a high-ranking Psychlo such as Terl. Terl then demands the remainder of the gold quicker. Terl is then seen to be hiding the gold bars in coffins intending to hoard it to pay his way off the planet and live a life of comfort elsewhere. While they are supposed to be laboring in the mines (while being surveilled by daily drone overflights), Jonnie and his followers plot a revolution, training themselves in aerial combat using the military base's flight simulators and disassembling a nuclear bomb into a smaller package (i.e. dirty bomb) to target the Psychlo's homeworld.

After a week of training, the rebels launch their attack, using the Harrier Jump Jets to engage the Psychlo's ships in aerial combat. In a suicide mission, Carlo flies his Psychlo shuttle into the Denver dome, destroying it and suffocating the Psychlos inside. Jonnie captures a teleportation device and uses it to teleport a dirty bomb to the Psychlo homeworld. When it detonates, the radiation it releases reacts catastrophically with the Psychlo atmosphere, destroying all life on the planet. The humans have retaken Earth but face an uncertain future. The last Psychlo survivors are Terl—who is imprisoned inside Fort Knox, in a makeshift cell surrounded by gold bars, as a bargaining chip in the event of a counterattack by Psychlos living off their homeworld or other conquered worlds—and Ker, who joins the victorious humans in their challenging project to rebuild their civilization.

