In 3028, a groundbreaking scientific project known as "The Titan Project" incurs the wrath of the Drej, a hostile race of aliens made of pure energy, who fear that it will allow humans to challenge them. Determined to wipe out humanity, the Drej initiate a massive attack on Earth, forcing the human race to evacuate the planet. During the evacuation, Professor Sam Tucker—head researcher on the Titan Project—leaves his young son Cale in the care of his alien friend Tek and flees Earth in the spaceship ''Titan''. Before he leaves, he gives Cale a gold ring, promising him that there will be hope for humanity as long as he wears it. The Drej destroy Earth, and the surviving humans flee into space.

Fifteen years later, the remnants of humanity live on as refugees but face extinction without a home planet of their own.  A jaded and cynical Cale works in the salvage yard of space station Tau 14. Ex-military officer Joseph Korso, a former friend and confidant of Cale's father, tracks Cale down and reveals that the location of the ''Titan'' is encoded in his ring, for which a holographic map appears in the palm of his hand. Korso invites Cale to join the crew of his spaceship ''Valkyrie'' as they seek the ''Titan''. Accepting Korso's offer, Cale and Korso escape Tau 14 with the Drej in pursuit. On the ''Valkyrie'', Cale befriends pilot Akima Kunimoto and three alien crew members: first mate Preed, weapons officer Stith, and scientist Gune.

Cale's map leads the crew of the ''Valkyrie'' to the planet Sesharrim, where an alien race called the Gaoul help them interpret the map, revealing that the ''Titan'' is hidden in the Andali Nebula. Drej fighters then attack the planet and abduct Cale and Akima in order to copy the map. Akima is rescued by the crew after being jettisoned by the Drej Queen, while Cale escapes the Drej mothership in a stolen fighter and makes his way back to the ''Valkyrie''. The map changes to reveal the Titan is hidden in the Ice Rings of Tigrin, a labyrinth of star shaped ice.

While resupplying at human space station New Bangkok, Cale and Akima discover that Korso and Preed have made a deal to sell the ''Titan''<nowiki/>'s location to the Drej. Cale and Akima manage to escape the ''Valkyrie'' and are left stranded on New Bangkok when Korso leaves for the ''Titan''. Determined to beat Korso to the ''Titan'', they fix up a dilapidated spaceship with help from the station's inhabitants.

Cale and Akima navigate the ice rings of Tigrin in a race against the ''Valkyrie'' and dock with the ''Titan''. They discover DNA of various animals onboard and a pre-recorded message left by Cale's deceased father, explaining that the ship was designed to create planets. However, during the escape from Earth, the ship's power cells were drained and lack the energy necessary to create a planet. The ''Valkyrie'' arrives and Preed sets off a bomb in an attempt to kill Stith and Gune. Finding Cale and Akima, Preed reveals that he has betrayed Korso and made his own deal with the Drej. A fight ensues and Korso kills Preed by snapping his neck. Cale and Korso fight, resulting in Korso falling over the railing.

The Drej begin their attack on the ''Titan''. Cale realizes that he may be able to recharge the ''Titan'' by using the Drej, as they are made of pure energy, but a circuit breaker stalls before he can complete the process. As Cale attempts to repair it, Akima, Stith and Gune fight off the Drej. Korso, who survived his fall, has a change of heart and sacrifices his life to repair the circuit breaker. Cale triggers the ''Titan''<nowiki/>'s systems, which absorb the Drej, their Queen and their mothership, killing them. The ''Titan'' creates a new world using the elements surrounding it.

Cale and Akima embrace in the rain on the newly created planet, and as Stith and Gune bid their farewell from the ''Valkyrie'', ships filled with human colonists arrive to start a new life.

