Seasoned con-man Nicky Spurgeon meets inexperienced grifter Jess Barrett, who tries to seduce and con him, with a fake jealous husband. When they fail, Nicky advises them never to lose focus when faced with unexpected situations. He follows Jess, convincing her to have drinks. Nicky tells her how his father Bucky shot his grandfather in a stand-off, explaining the "Toledo Panic Button" tactic, in which you shoot your partner to show your loyalty.

Jess follows Nicky to New Orleans, successfully persuading him to take her under his wing, where she also meets Nicky's crew, including Farhad and Horst. Picking a few pockets as a test, Nicky and Jess develop a romantic relationship, upsetting Nicky, whose father taught him to never become emotionally involved with colleagues. At a fictional Super Bowl XVII, Nicky gets into a round of increasingly extravagant bets with gambler Liyuan Tse, eventually losing all of the money the crew has earned.

To win it back, Nicky asks Tse to pick any player on or off the field and has Jess guess the number picked. Distraught, Jess scans the field, sees Farhad wearing jersey number 55, and realizes it is another con. They take Tse for millions. Nicky later explains how Tse had been programmed to pick 55 from his arrival, with subtle, subliminal prompts throughout his day. This victory leaves Tse impressed, who even graciously gives all the money back to Nicky.

Nicky leaves Jess with her cut, and instructs the driver to take her to the airport. She cries as her limo drives off, as he climbs into another waiting car.

Three years later, Nicky goes to Buenos Aires to work for billionaire motorsport team owner Rafael Garriga. As Garriga wants to beat Australian businessman McEwen's team in the championship, Nicky will pretend to be Garriga's team's disgruntled technician who's willing to sell his custom fuel using algorithm EXR. Instead, he will sell McEwen a bogus version which will actually slow their car down. At a pre-race party, Nicky runs into Jess, who is now with Garriga. After faking heavy drinking upon seeing Jess, Nicky has a convincing public fight with Garriga and after being thrown out, is recruited by McEwen to provide the component.

Nicky begins pursuing Jess again, and they eventually rekindle their relationship. The head of Garriga's security entourage Owens is suspicious and narrowly misses catching them together. Nicky not only delivers the real component to McEwen for three million euros but also sells it to the other teams for similar amounts.
 
Before Nicky and Jess can return to the US together, they are caught by Garriga's men. Jess is bound and her mouth is taped shut whilst Nicky is beaten. Garriga is convinced that she helped Nicky gain access to EXR, so begins to suffocate her. To save Jess, Nicky explains that he tricked her into believing he still had feelings for her and the necklace he had given her secretly recorded Garriga's password and login information. Jess was conned and knew nothing about it. However, she then reveals she was only trying to seduce Garriga to steal his valuable watch and make Nicky jealous.

Nicky promises to come clean to spare Jess's life, but Owens shoots him in the chest, causing a horrified Garriga to leave. Owens then reveals himself to be Bucky, and assures Jess that he avoided any major arteries by employing the "Toledo Panic Button". He then tapes up Nicky's wounds and draws excess blood from his lung with a syringe so he can breathe. They flee the garage in Garriga's vehicle.

Bucky drives Nicky and Jess to the hospital to treat Nicky's punctured lung. Before he drops them off, he reveals why he's left him on the streets: during a poker deal in Boston, he had a gun pulled on him, and all he could think about then was Nicky. He then walked away and never looked back.

After emphasizing that love will get one killed in the game, Bucky departs with all the money as a reminder of the consequences of losing focus. After he leaves, Nicky notices that Jess snatched Garriga's $200,000 watch, and a smiling Nicky and Jess walk towards the hospital entrance together.

