During the original outbreak of the Rage Virus, Don, his wife Alice, and four more survivors hide in a cottage on the outskirts of London. They hear a terrified boy pounding at their door and Don lets him in. Minutes later, they discover that the infected have followed the boy. Don pleads with Alice to leave the boy but she refuses so he abandons them and escapes on a boat while Alice, the boy, and the rest of the survivors are killed.

After the infected begin to die of starvation, NATO forces take control of Britain. Twenty-eight weeks after the outbreak, an American force, under the command of Brigadier General Stone, brings in settlers. Among the new arrivals are Don and Alice's children, Tammy and Andy, who were out of the country during the outbreak. They are admitted to District One, a safe zone on the Isle of Dogs, where they are reunited with their father.

That night, Tammy and Andy sneak out of the safe zone and return to their former home, where they collect old family photographs. Andy finds Alice alive in a delirious, semi-conscious state. The three are discovered by American soldiers and taken back to District One, where they are placed in isolation. Alice is taken to a quarantine room, where she is tested by Scarlet, a U.S. Army medical officer, and found to be an asymptomatic carrier of the Rage virus. Don makes an unauthorized visit to Alice, begging her to forgive him. They kiss and Don is infected. He savagely kills her and goes on a rampage.

Scarlet rescues Tammy and Andy, aware that their genetic makeup might hold the key to a cure. Don starts a domino effect of rapid rage infection. Amidst the chaos, American soldiers cannot distinguish between panicked survivors and rampaging infected, and are told to shoot everyone. One of the snipers, Sergeant Doyle, unable to keep complying with the order, escapes with Scarlet, Tammy, and Andy as the U.S. Air Force firebombs District One. Don is among the infected who survive the bombings and escape into abandoned London.

Doyle's pilot friend Flynn arrives by helicopter to pick up Doyle but tells him to leave the civilians and head to Wembley Stadium. Doyle ignores his instructions and escorts the trio to Wembley. They break into an abandoned Volvo V70 to escape nerve gas released to kill the infected but are unable to start the car. As American soldiers with flamethrowers draw near, Doyle exits the car to push-start it and is burned alive. Scarlet and the kids escape into the London Underground but Don kills Scarlet and bites Andy.

Tammy shoots Don dead. Andy remains symptom-free but a carrier of the Rage virus. They are picked up by Flynn, who flies them across the English Channel to France. Twenty-eight days later, a French-accented voice requesting help is heard from the radio in Flynn's abandoned helicopter. A group of the infected emerge at the Paris Métro Trocadéro Station with a view across the Seine to the Eiffel Tower, revealing the virus has spread to continental Europe.

