In 2057, the Sun is dying and Earth is freezing. Eight international astronauts pilot a colossal stellar bomb aboard the spaceship ''Icarus II'', with the intent of jump-starting the Sun and then returning to Earth. As they pass near Mercury, ''Icarus II'' picks up the distress beacon of ''Icarus I''. That ship was the first to attempt a similar mission, and disappeared seven years earlier. The ship's proximity to the sun kept its signals from reaching Earth. The iron core of Mercury acts as an antenna, amplifying the signal and allowing ''Icarus II'' to intercept it. Reasoning that two payloads have a better chance of success than one, and that the last of Earth's fissile materials had been used to make their bomb, the ship's physicist Capa recommends to captain Kaneda that they change course and attempt to commandeer ''Icarus I''. Mace, the ship's engineer, opposes the deviation as risky. Navigator Trey calculates and implements a trajectory to intercept ''Icarus I'', but forgets to realign the shields that protect the ship from the sun, causing damage to four shield panels which if not repaired could destroy the whole ship and kill the crew.

Kaneda and Capa embark on a spacewalk to make repairs, assisted by the pilot, Cassie, who angles the damaged portion of the shield away from the Sun. As expected, this leads to the loss of two protruding communications towers; however, reflected light also destroys the ship's oxygen garden and oxygen reserves, much to the horror of botanist Corazon. As ''Icarus II''{{'}}s autopilot returns the shield to its original alignment, Kaneda orders Capa to retreat to safety as he repairs the final panel himself, and is burned to death moments later. Trey is unable to cope with the loss of Kaneda, and the ship's psychiatrist Searle assesses him as a suicide risk and places him under heavy sedation.

Without enough oxygen to reach the release point for its explosive payload, ''Icarus II'' has no choice but to dock with ''Icarus I''. Capa, Searle, Mace, and communications officer Harvey, now the acting captain, search the vessel, leaving Cassie and Corazon onboard ''Icarus II'' with Trey. They discover that despite the ship's systems being mostly operational, including a lush, overgrown, oxygen garden, the mainframe has been sabotaged, rendering delivery of the payload impossible. The ship's log contains a rambling message from Pinbacker, its captain, who abandoned his mission and has severe burns on his face. Mace deduces that the transmission was made six and a half years ago, around the time when the crew should have delivered their payload. The crew of ''Icarus I'' is found in the solar observation room, burned to death long ago by unfiltered exposure to the Sun.

Suddenly, the two ships explosively decouple, destroying ''Icarus I''{{'}}s outer airlock and stranding the four crewmembers. With only one spacesuit available, Capa wears it due to being the only crewmember able to operate the payload, while the rest wrap themselves in salvaged insulation material from the walls of the ship and then jettison between airlocks, using the vacuum release for propulsion. Searle realizes that one of them must stay behind to manually operate the airlock and volunteers himself. Searle releases the airlock, shooting Capa, Harvey and Mace out into open space. Harvey misses the airlock, freezes, and dies from asphyxiation, while Capa and Mace make it back to ''Icarus II''. Searle, having spent the mission obsessed with looking into the shielded sun, voluntarily exposes himself to its full, deadly force in the observation room, killing himself in the process.

Corazon calculates that there is only enough oxygen left for four of the five survivors to reach the Sun. The group reluctantly decides to have Mace kill Trey, but discovers Trey has already committed suicide. With the remaining crew somewhat relieved that they will now at least make the trip to the Sun, Capa is informed by ''Icarus'' that there is still not enough oxygen to complete the mission because an unknown fifth person is on board the ship. Capa investigates and discovers an insane and disfigured Pinbacker, who is revealed to have been behind the decoupling of the airlocks. Pinbacker attacks, wounds, and pursues Capa into the airlock, who seals it from his side. Pinbacker locks his side of the airlock to trap Capa, then kills Corazon and removes the four mainframes from their coolant baths, shutting down the ship's computer, before going after Cassie.

Mace manually lowers two of the computers back into the freezing coolant, but when his leg catches on the third descending mainframe, he becomes trapped, and the computer system is disabled. As he freezes to death, he begs Capa to complete the mission. Capa blows the airlock and separates the bomb from the ship, which is burned away by the sun. He then enters the bomb, where he finds Cassie, but they are ambushed by Pinbacker, who claims he spent the last seven years "conversing" with God (the sun) and was told to send all humanity to Heaven. As they hurtle into the Sun, Capa escapes Pinbacker by ripping the skin off one of his arms. Cassie encourages Capa to ignite the bomb, and he manages to reach the controls. Unsure if it will work under these extreme conditions, he watches as the bomb begins to ignite at the edge of the Sun, killing Cassie and Pinbacker. As time and space distort, Capa uses his final moments to blissfully reach out and touch the surface of the Sun. On Earth, at the frozen Sydney Harbour, Capa's sister and her children listen to Capa's last transmission and witness the Sun's light starting to shine again.

