In the South Pacific, a translucent alien spaceship hovers over the sea. Meanwhile, a test stealth plane piloted by Joli Mercer comes across the spacecraft and chases it. The plane begins to malfunction and Joli lands on a nearby island, finding an alien which a giant spider kills and then Joli.

10 months later, Loren Mercer is required to be the pilot of a medical expedition organized by Dr. Samuel Leon and assistant Susana Gabriel, after having received a native from an island who died from an unknown virus. The expedition is led by Lev Valentine with soldiers Bear and Reyes, arachnologist Henry Capri, native guide Toe Boy and two natives. Once they reach the island, the plane begins to malfunction and they are forced to land on the beach.

Next morning, the expedition goes into the jungle but some strange ticks burrow into Reyes. Upon reaching the village, they find that everything is deserted and Capri discovers that several insects have mutated. Then the ticks start to come out of Reyes and Bear kills him to end his pain. That night, Loren is investigating on her own when the group is attacked by a giant centipede, killing one of the natives. Loren finds some of her brother's clothes and confesses to Valentine that his brother was left for dead but she is still looking for him. Valentine decides they all are leaving the island the next morning, although Loren and Capri want to stay. 

Next day, Valentine agrees to help Loren find Joli once they get everyone off the island but Capri is not in the village. Bear is sent with a native to find a radio signal for help but when they walk down a river, a small spider throws acid in the native's face killing him. Capri finds the giant centipede dying but the giant spider attacks him. The rest of the group find the remains of Loren's brother stuck in a tree. Later they find Capri covered in spider web and bitten by the spider. He explains there's a giant spider in the island and deduce it's an alien. Capri asks to be killed and Susana does it. The giant spider reaches them but Samuel flees while the others shoot the spider but they end up running. While doing so, Susana is trapped in spider webs that were in the middle of the way but Loren and Valentine help her using Capri's liquid nitrogen. Samuel is caught by the spider and kills him by melting his face with acid.

The three enter a military bunker but Toe Boy has disappeared. The spider attacks them through one of the windows. Valentine attacks the spider with a machete but the spider cuts him off with a fang. Loren shoots the spider in an eye and it flees. At night the spider sneaks through the bunker's roof and they lock in a small room. Susana suffering claustrophobia opens the door thinking the spider left but it kills her with its stinger. The spider tries to enter the room, but they tear off a leg by closing the door. They escape through a trapdoor to underground tunnels. Outside they fall asleep and Loren has a nightmare. Next morning, Bear and Toe Boy find them and they all decide to kill the spider.

On the way, a weak Valentine stays behind. On the nest, they find the spider breeding in a silk cocoon over a spider egg sac. Loren plans to knock the spider down and have Bear shoot it to death, but it awakes early and kills Bear. Loren throws Toe Boy's vial of black widow poison to the spider, hurting it. The spider chases Loren but upon stumbling, it traps her in spider web. When the spider is about to kill her, Valentine appears shooting at it while Toe Boy throws darts. As the spider tries to flee, Loren pulls the spider web thread to fall off the ceiling on a stalagmite, killing it. As they walk the jungle, another giant spider watches them from an overhead cliff.

