Quentin Kemmer is a shy security guard and obsessive comic book fan who dreams of becoming a superhero like his favorite comic book character The Arachnid Avenger, and going out with his next-door neighbor Stephanie Lewis. When his partner is killed during a botched robbery at the research laboratory where he works, Quentin is fired and he injects himself with an experimental serum derived from spiders. The next day he is wracked with a severe fever and spends most of the day unconscious. After he recovers, he discovers that he has developed increased strength.

Later that night, Stephanie is attacked and almost raped by a stalker. Quentin intervenes and kills the man, leaving before Stephanie can see him. Quentin later returns to his apartment and finds Stephanie being interviewed by Detective Frank Grillo in hopes of identifying her savior. Quentin is thrilled that he is finally able to live his dream of becoming a superhero. However, as the days go by, he develops more spider-like abilities, including being able to shoot webs from his abdomen, and his body becoming more spider-like. Quentin is overwhelmed with an insatiable hunger but is unable to eat solid food. Arriving at a local store in an effort to find something to satisfy his hunger, he happens upon a man attempting to rape a young woman and attacks him, severely injuring the man. Expecting the woman to be grateful, he is surprised when she yells at him in anger as the man was her boyfriend. When she attempts to call the police, Quentin encases her in webbing. Police Officer Williams arrives on the scene and attempts to free the woman but is attacked by Quentin.

The next day the police converge on the store and find the man's body, which has been sucked dry of all fluids, and the woman in a state of shock. Detective Grillo is confused by the state of the man's body and by the presence of what appears to be spider webs at the scene as well as Williams's badge. Williams's body is missing. Horrified at what he is becoming as his body mutates even further, and afraid of hurting anyone else, Quentin holes himself up in his room in an effort to prevent any more murders.

The next night, he is overwhelmed by hunger and ventures out, murdering two young men who used to pick on him. Trying to get to the bottom of the murders, Frank interviews the head of the research department where Quentin used to work. He discovers that scientists were working on a way to transfer properties from spiders into humans. Now realizing that the killer might have injected himself with the lab's serum, and theorizing that Quentin might be the killer, Frank visits Quentin's apartment but finds no one apparently home. After discovering the same webbing found at the store, Frank enters the apartment's basement where he discovers dozens of bodies encased in webbing. Frank's wife Trixie has followed him, believing he is hiding Officer Williams, with whom she was having an affair. Trixie is attacked by Quentin. Frank attempts to rescue her, but arrives too late and she dies in his arms. Entering the apartment, Quentin kidnaps Stephanie and takes her to an abandoned building nearby. Frank arrives at the building and finds Stephanie strung up in a large spider's web. Quentin, now a grotesque mixture of man and spider, appears and begs Frank to kill him. Frank at first refuses, but the animal side of Quentin takes over and he lunges at Stephanie, forcing Frank to open fire on him. Stephanie thanks Quentin for saving her before he dies. Quentin's friend Han introduces a comic book collector to an action figure that resembles his friend, now a superhero named Quentin Arachnid.

