Henry, a hermit walking in the woods, encounters his dog, dead from a blood infection, and becomes infected himself from contact with his dog’s blood. Meanwhile, college students Jeff, Marcy, Paul, Karen, and Bert take a vacation to a remote cabin to celebrate October break. Bert leaves to hunt squirrels but accidentally shoots and further wounds the now disfigured and bloody Henry. Despite Henry's pleas for aid, Bert flees and remains silent about the incident.

The students gather around a campfire that night, where they are joined by a friendly drifter named Grimm and his pet dog, Dr. Mambo. When it rains, Grimm leaves with his dog to pack up his belongings. While the friends wait for Grimm, Henry returns, begging for help. When Bert shuts the door on the sick hermit, he tries stealing the group's car while vomiting blood. When Henry approaches Marcy and Karen, Paul accidentally sets him on fire. While seeking help the next day, Jeff and Bert encounter a butcher but leave after learning that she is Henry's cousin. Paul receives assistance from police Deputy Winston, who promises to send up a tow truck. Paul tries comforting Karen, who is upset over the killing of Henry. After calming her down, Paul attempts to have sex with her; as he reaches between her legs, he discovers a bloody, infected wound on her thigh. The group isolates her in a shed.

After fixing the truck, Bert coughs up blood but does not tell the others to prevent a panic. Bert drives off after Paul and Jeff discover that he has caught the disease. Jeff takes the remaining beer and leaves, terrified of becoming infected. Bert seeks help at a convenience store but angers the owner after his son, Dennis, bites him. Bert flees, chased by Dennis's father and two friends. At the cabin, Marcy worries that they will all contract the disease. Paul comforts her, and they impulsively have sex. Soon after, he leaves the cabin to find Jeff, while Marcy takes a bath, crying. As she shaves her legs, the flesh begins to peel off and she runs outside in a panic, where she is eaten alive by Dr. Mambo.

Paul discovers Henry’s body floating in the reservoir, and realizes that the infection is spreading through the water supply. Returning to the cabin, Paul finds Marcy's remains and Dr. Mambo feeding on Karen. After killing Dr. Mambo with Bert's gun, he bludgeons Karen with a shovel out of mercy. A dying Bert returns to the cabin pursued by Dennis's father and his two companions. The posse kills Bert, and Paul kills all three of them. Paul looks for Jeff; he instead finds Grimm's corpse in a cave. Paul takes the convenience store's truck, and, while driving, discovers that he is infected before hitting a deer. He reunites with Deputy Winston, who is partying with underage drinkers. Paul requests a ride to the hospital, but before the group departs, Winston is ordered to kill on sight several infected people on a killing spree.

Paul attacks but does not kill Winston. He runs towards the busy street, attempting to hitch a ride however he falls unconscious. A passing vehicle does stop to pick him up and drops him off at a hospital. The doctors unknowingly request him to be transported to another medical facility, by Deputy Winston. 

Jeff, who has been hiding out and drinking in the woods, returns to the cabin the next day. Initially crying after seeing the remains of his friends, he becomes ecstatic upon realizing that he is the only survivor. As he raises his arms in victory, he is killed by local police, and his body burned with the remains of Bert and Karen. The sheriff asks Winston if he took care of Paul. 

A boy and a girl get water from the lake for their lemonade stand, not realizing that a barely alive Paul is in the lake and the water is now contaminated. The sheriff and his deputies stop by the convenience store, owned by the children's grandfather, where they buy glasses of lemonade, tainted by the contaminated water.

