In 1962, aboard the Italian ocean liner ''MS Antonia Graza'', passengers dance to the song "Senza Fine" sung by Francesca. A young girl, Katie, sits alone until the ship's captain offers to dance with her. A hand lifts a lever that tightens a wire cord. The wire whips across the dance floor, bisecting the passengers and crew. Katie is spared as the wire rips above her head through the captain, who is killed. 

Forty years later, a salvage crew — Captain Sean Murphy, Maureen Epps, Greer, Dodge, Munder and Santos — are approached by Jack Ferriman, a weather service pilot who spotted a vessel adrift in the Bering Sea. It can be claimed by whoever brings it to port. The crew sets out on their salvage tug, the ''Arctic Warrior''. The ship is the ''Antonia Graza'', missing since 1962. Boarding the abandoned liner, the salvagers discover nine boxes, each containing twenty-eight gold bars.

After a series of supernatural events, the group decides to leave with the gold, but an invisible force sabotages the ''Arctic Warrior'' with a propane gas leak. The tugboat explodes, killing Santos.

With no other option, the group repairs the ''Graza''. Greer encounters the apparition of Francesca, who seduces him into cheating on his fiancée, then leads him to fall down an elevator shaft killing him. Murphy enters the captain's cabin and encounters the ghost of the captain, who explains that they recovered the gold from a sinking cruise ship, the ''Lorelei'', along with a sole survivor. Murphy is shown a picture of the survivor, whom he recognizes. He rushes to tell the others but hallucinates and sees Epps as the ghost of the burned Santos, who provokes him into a rage. The others think Murphy has gone mad and lock him in the drained fish tank, where Epps later finds him drowned. An invisible force has opened a valve filling the tank with water.

Epps meets Katie's ghost, who reveals what happened on the ''Graza''. The sole survivor of the ''Lorelei'' convinced many of the ''Graza'''s crew to murder their passengers, as well as the captain and officers, for the gold. After murdering the passengers, the crew turned on each other. Francesca killed the officer who survived. The mastermind behind the massacre killed Francesca by releasing a hook that slashed her neck, then branded her palm with a hook-shaped symbol using only his hands. The man is Jack Ferriman, the demonic spirit of a deceased sinner tasked with provoking people to sin, then killing them and bringing their souls to Hell. Epps deduces that Ferriman lured the salvage team to the ''Graza'' to repair it and decides to sink it to thwart his plan. Munder is crushed to death under the ship's gears while scuba diving in the flooded engine room. Epps tells Dodge to keep Jack on the ship's bridge while she sets explosives. Ferriman taunts Dodge, mocking him as a coward for never acting on his feelings for Epps, then charges him. Dodge shoots Ferriman with a shotgun and believes Ferriman to be dead.

Epps is setting explosives when she is confronted by Dodge. He claims that he killed Ferriman and they can salvage the gold to start a life together, but Epps asks why Dodge has not asked where Munder is. Dodge morphs into Ferriman, who killed Dodge. Ferriman plans to use the ''Graza'' as a trap to continue collecting souls. As long as the ''Graza'' is kept afloat, the souls of everyone who died aboard the ship will be dragged down when Ferriman returns to Hell. Epps detonates the explosives. Ferriman is blown to pieces in the explosion, while Katie helps Epps escape the sinking ship. Katie and the other trapped souls ascend to Heaven.

Epps is found by a cruise ship and returned to land. As she is loaded into an ambulance, she sees the gold being loaded onto the cruise ship, overseen by a resurrected Ferriman, who glares at her and carries on. Epps screams loudly as the ambulance doors close.

