In Russia, US Army Colonel Robert Evans Jefferson, Jr (Marcus Aurelius) has been tasked to lead Russian soldiers commanded by Sergeant Ivan Petrov on a secret mission to capture an 80-foot python that was created by American scientists and has gotten loose near the Ural Mountains. Not long ago, Colonel Jefferson and Sergeant Petrov, accomplish their assigned task (although one of Petrov's men is killed by the snake.) and the snakes are placed aboard an American cargo plane heading for the United States, Chechen rebels mistake the plane for a Russian one and they shoot it down, This alerts a Russian Army unit nearby, who then attack the rebels and subsequently take the mysterious container back to a nearby base. However, the creature escapes, and slaughters all the soldiers and scientists. The only survivor is the commander of the Russian military base, Colonel Zubov (Ivaylo Geraskov).

American Dwight Stoddard (Dana Ashbrook) and his Russian wife, Nalia (Simmone Jade Mackinnon,) run a shipping business in Russia. Greg Larson (Billy Zabka) hires them to move a mysterious container, which is holding another larger python, and they reach the isolated and deserted Russian military base where they discover Zubov. After being discovered about his true intentions by Dwight and Nalia, Larson engages Dwight in a fist fight and loses. As he attempts to surrender, a python slithers onto the scene behind him. Larson is momentarily confused. The snake growls and darts towards him. He whirls around and screams as the python coils around him. He tries to escape but creature has him tightly constricted in its coils. Dwight and Nalia look on with satisfaction. Dwight instructs his wife to leave them. The python briefly loosens its coils around Larson, who manages to scream out one more plea for Dwight to save him. Before Dwight can move, the python devours Larson whole. The snake is killed when a brick of C4 is hurled into its mouth by Dwight, while the other snake chases Dwight and Nalia outside where it is destroyed by a bombing run issued by Larson's superiors. Dwight and Nalia survive, and are rescued by Russian soldiers.

