Norwich radio station North Norfolk Digital is bought out by a multinational corporation, with staff facing redundancies. DJ Alan Partridge is unconcerned, but DJ Pat Farrell pleads with him to hijack a board meeting to urge the new owners against layoff. When Alan discovers that either he or Pat will be laid off, he urges them to fire Pat, and writes "JUST SACK PAT" on the room's flipchart.

During a company party, Pat enters the station with a shotgun and holds the staff hostage, demanding his job back. The police enlist Alan as a negotiator, and he gains Pat's trust. With Alan's co-presenter Sidekick Simon, the three host a radio show commenting on the siege. Alan daydreams of ending the siege heroically, but cannot bring himself to wrestle Pat's gun from him. As the siege becomes national news, Alan's arrogance resurfaces and he shares a kiss with his colleague Angela.

Alan accidentally locks himself out of the building and loses his trousers trying to re-enter through a window. The police realise he is useless and send in an undercover officer disguised as a pizza delivery man; Alan intercepts and takes the pizzas in himself. When Pat discovers a taser in one of the boxes, an altercation erupts between the hostages and the police burst in. Pat escapes in the station's tour bus, taking Alan and the security guard, Michael, hostage.

Alan and Pat continue to host the radio show from the bus. However, Pat sees Alan's "JUST SACK PAT" message in a photo and realises that Alan was behind his redundancy. Alan hides in the bus toilet and escapes in the septic tank. On Cromer Pier, Pat battles Alan and the police. Michael tries to distract Pat by throwing himself off the pier. Pat tells Alan that he is suicidal due to the death of his wife and prepares to shoot himself. Unable to pull the trigger, he gives his shotgun to Alan, who throws it aside. The gun goes off, shooting Alan in the leg; a police sniper, reacting to gunfire, shoots him again. Alan assumes he is dying, but a paramedic assures him he will be fine.

Alan returns to North Norfolk Digital with Sidekick Simon, and Pat calls in to the show from prison for the next month. Alan goes on holiday with Angela and her sons.

