Introverted 14-year-old Duncan from Albany, New York, reluctantly goes on summer vacation to a beach house in Wareham, Massachusetts with his mother Pam, her wealthy boyfriend Trent, and Trent's arrogant, spoiled daughter, Steph. Trent and Steph are frequently condescending towards Duncan.

On the way to the beach house, Trent asks Duncan to rate himself on a scale of one to ten; he says six, but Trent refutes that he's a three. At the house they are greeted by their neighbors; gregarious, heavy-drinking Betty, her children Susanna and Peter, and married couple Kip and Joan. Later that evening, Duncan and Susanna have an awkward conversation from their adjacent porches.

Duncan discovers a small girl's bicycle in the garage, which he uses to explore the town. At a pizzeria, he meets Owen, a worker at the local water park, Water Wizz. Owen takes Duncan under his wing and introduces him to the park's colorful, rag-tag group of employees: Caitlin, Lewis, and Roddy. Several youths at the water park speak reverently of a legendary pass in the tube slide, wondering how it could have been done. Owen hires Duncan for odd jobs at the park.

Duncan is continually neglected by Pam, who indulges in drinking, staying out late, and smoking marijuana with other adult vacationers. At a Fourth of July cookout, Susanna senses his discontent and invites him to go hunting for ghost crabs with her and Peter, where they both open up about their absent fathers. Later that night, Duncan witnesses Trent and Joan kissing, but does not tell anyone.

Pam begins to suspect Trent and Joan are having an affair, but he convinces her outside. Later, Duncan confronts Pam in front of the others and tells her to accept Trent's affair and leave him. When Trent interjects, Duncan insults and shoves him; Trent indignantly tells Duncan his father does not want him. 

Duncan flees, and Susanna follows him to offer comfort. When he tries to kiss her, she rejects him, upsetting him even more. Accompanied by Peter, Duncan sneaks away to Water Wizz, where Owen is throwing a going-away party for Lewis.

Duncan spends the night with his friends at Water Wizz, refusing to leave in the morning. He opens up to Owen about his home situation, and how Water Wizz is the only place where he feels accepted. A sympathetic Owen recalls his own upbringing where he was forced to abide by strict rules and advises Duncan to disregard Trent's criticisms and be himself.

When Duncan returns to the beach house, Pam tells him they are all leaving. Betty and her kids arrive to say their goodbyes, and Susanna finally kisses Duncan. When Trent stops for gas on their way out of town, Duncan jumps out of the car and runs to Water Wizz, followed by his mother, Trent, and Steph. 

Duncan tells Owen and the other employees that he has to leave, and goes with Owen to the Devil's Peak slide. Duncan becomes the first person to ever pass someone in the water slide while the rest of the park staff and attendees watch. 

After finally introducing Owen to his mother, Duncan bids everyone at the park goodbye. Owen speaks fondly of Duncan to Pam, and introduces himself to Trent as "a good friend of the three.” Trent attempts to bypass Owen in order to bring Duncan back to the car, but Owen blocks him and Trent retreats. Duncan hugs Owen and thanks him for his kindness. Trent, Steph, Pam and Duncan regroup in the car, where Pam finally stands up for herself as they head out of town. Pam climbs to the trunk of the car where Duncan is sitting, despite Trent's protests, and they share a smile.

