Beck is a "retrieval expert", a bounty hunter who collects debts for Billy Walker. He is sent to a nightclub to retrieve a championship ring from a football player, and after doing so is assaulted by one of Walker's other collectors. Angry, he confronts Walker and tells him that he wants out of the business. 

Walker talks Beck into one last bounty – retrieve Walker's son Travis from a small mining town in Brazil and he will give him enough money to open his own restaurant. He accepts and leaves for Brazil. 

When he arrives in the town of El Dorado, Beck meets with the man running the mining operation, Cornelius Hatcher. Hatcher gives him his blessing to grab Travis, but reneges after he finds out Travis has discovered the missing golden artifact "O Gato do Diabo” (The Devil's Cat). Hatcher and his men confront Beck in the local bar, but he manages to leave with Travis.  

On the way back to the airfield, Travis forces their Jeep off the road and into the jungle. He attempts to escape but is re-captured by Beck. After an unfortunate encounter with some local monkeys, the two find themselves in the camp of the local resistance movement.

At the resistance camp, Travis convinces the rebels that Beck works for Hatcher and was sent to kill them all. After a prolonged fight, Beck gains the upper hand before the rebel leader Mariana intervenes. She wants the Gato so it can be used to ensure the locals can free themselves from Hatcher. Hatcher and his men suddenly attack the camp, killing many rebels. 

Beck, Travis, and Mariana escape the camp and Beck makes Mariana a deal – she helps him get Travis to the airfield in exchange for the Gato. After some searching, Travis leads them to a cave behind a waterfall where the Gato is located. They retrieve it and begin the journey back.

On the way back, Mariana chastises Travis for wanting to sell the artifact, but he argues that he actually did want to give it to a museum. She  gives them a toxic fruit that temporarily paralyzes them. She tells Beck which direction the airfield is, and leaves them with a fire to keep the animals away. 

After waking up able to move, Beck hauls Travis to the airfield. The local pilot, Declan, tells Beck that Mariana was captured earlier by Hatcher and will probably be killed. Travis pleads with Beck to help, and the two head into town to rescue her. 

Using a cow stampede for cover, they begin their assault on Hatcher's goons. Travis becomes trapped by gunfire in a bus, and Beck saves him before it explodes. Hatcher tells his brother to take Mariana and the Gato and flee, but they are stopped by Travis. 

Hatcher confronts Beck, who offers him the chance to leave town, which Hatcher initially refuses. After he is shot by the townspeople, Hatcher agrees to leave town, but eventually dies from his gunshot wounds. Travis gives the Gato to Mariana before leaving with Beck, who tells him that despite all they've been through he must still return him to the United States.

Back in Los Angeles, Travis is delivered to his father who begins to verbally and physically abuse him. Beck asks to celebrate with them and gives Walker and his men the same fruit Mariana used on him. As they are paralyzed, Beck uncuffs Travis and the duo leave together.

