Near the completion of his sentence in Sing Sing, Paul Vitti's life is threatened by assassins and corrupt guards while incarcerated. He starts singing showtunes from ''West Side Story'' to get the attention of Ben Sobel, who previously hung up on him while attending his father's funeral. 

The FBI calls in Ben to perform psychiatric tests on Paul to determine if he is feigning insanity. After the tests, it appears Paul's mental state is deteriorating, and the FBI approves Paul's release for one month, into Ben's custody, for further therapy. As Ben drives Paul from prison, Paul immediately reveals that he was faking. 

Ben talks Paul into finding a regular job as requested by the FBI. Paul attempts to find a legitimate job (he tries a car dealer, a restaurant, and a jewelry store), but his rude manners and paranoia only complicate things further. This ends up in him getting fired each time.

At the same time, Paul is told by ''de facto'' boss Patti LoPresti that the Rigazzi family wants him dead. He responds to this by telling the Rigazzis that he is "out" and seeking a new line of employment. He eventually finds employment working as a technical advisor on the set of a mafia TV series. 

Meanwhile, FBI agents inform Ben that Paul has his former crew back together, and may be planning something major. This rouses Ben's suspicion, and he visits Paul. Both get caught up in a car chase with Rigazzi hitmen, which ends up with Paul escaping. The FBI blames Ben, and gives him 24 hours to locate Paul.

After locating Paul through Ben's son Michael, who is now working as Paul's chauffeur, Ben discovers Paul is planning a big armored car heist with LoPresti as a partner. He attempts to intervene and talk Paul out of it but Paul proceeds and Ben is forced to go along as well. 

The crew ambushes the armored car with smoke grenades, and lift it over a fence in the midst of the confusion. They extract over $22 million of gold bullion, but LoPresti's thugs take over, revealing themselves to actually have been working for Rigazzi. 

Ben, in a fit of anger, beats one of them, and Paul's men apprehend the others. They use the gold bullion to frame the Rigazzi family, leaving three Rigazzi goons locked in the armored truck suspended from the crane. This leads to the arrest of the entire Rigazzi family, and in turn, prevents a mob war.

Ben meets with Paul and Jelly near bridges on the New York waterfront, and they part ways again as friends, singing another ''West Side Story'' showtune together. During the credits, bloopers are shown.

