Multi-billionaire Preston Blake freezes to death upon reaching the top of Mount Everest. With no immediate heir, it is unclear who will inherit Blake's massive fortune. His board of directors discover that he has a living great-nephew named Longfellow Deeds, who runs a pizzeria in Mandrake Falls, New Hampshire, and also writes greeting cards hoping that they might be accepted by Hallmark. Deeds is flown to New York City by businessman Chuck Cedar, who temporarily controls Blake Media, and general counsel Cecil Anderson. Once Deeds arrives, plans are made for him to sell his shares in the company to Cedar and return home with $40 billion. Deeds remains in New York while the legal details are worked out.

The story is major news and reporter Babe Bennett, who works for a tabloid television show called ''Inside Access'', wants in on the inside story. She has lecherous co-worker Marty pretend to steal her purse in sight of Deeds who "rescues" Babe. She then goes out with him pretending to be "Pam Dawson", a school nurse from the fictional town of Winchestertonfieldville, Iowa (a name she made up on the spot). Deeds later accompanies her to the 'actual' town as a surprise, much to her shock. Though Babe initially just wanted a career-advancing story, she eventually falls for the unfailingly soft-hearted Deeds. During a dinner date at Madison Square Garden, ''Inside Access'', in concert with Cedar following a revealing tip from Marty, reveals Pam's true identity to Deeds. Heartbroken, Deeds decides to return home to Mandrake Falls with assurances that the company will stay open in Blake's honor, and he donates his $40 billion to the United Negro College Fund.

After returning to Mandrake Falls, Deeds learns from his friend Crazy Eyes that Cedar intends to sell the company, causing thousands of employees to lose their jobs. Babe follows Deeds to Mandrake Falls to win him back. After saving her life when she falls through a frozen lake, he rejects her saying he does not really know who she is. Babe returns to New York despondent and rejects Marty for his betrayal despite his apology.

At a shareholders' meeting, Cedar has persuaded everyone to sell the company until Deeds, who has bought a single share, arrives and convinces everyone not to sell. However, Cedar controls a majority of the shares and the sale is approved. Babe arrives after having studied Blake's diary (which she stole) and has determined Blake's longtime butler Emilio Lopez is actually Blake's illegitimate son and the true heir as a result of an affair with his maid. Emilio immediately takes control of Blake Media and fires Cedar, much to the latter's anger, and those involved while sparing Cecil. Babe reconciles with Deeds after professing she loves him; Deeds accepts her apology and returns her love. Emilio thanks Deeds for his support and gives him a billion dollars as a friendly farewell gesture.

Deeds returns to the pizzeria with Babe, where he reads one of his accepted cards to her as other people are seen reading it. As for his money, he spent some of it on red Corvettes for everyone in Mandrake Falls - the movie ends with Crazy Eyes crashing his Corvette, but he is unharmed.

