Cynical New York City advertising copywriter Roger Swanson, a self-styled lothario, is dumped by his on-again/off-again girlfriend, Joyce, who is also his boss. His workday is further complicated by the unexpected arrival of his sixteen-year-old nephew, Nick, who came to New York City to do a college admissions interview at Columbia University. After asking to spend the night at Roger's, Nick reveals that he has come to ask for help in the hope of ending his status as a virgin. That evening, an embittered Roger takes Nick to an upscale singles bar and gives him guidance in pickup artistry. They meet two women, Andrea and Sophie, and have a lengthy conversation.

All four leave the bar to go to a different outdoor area, where they discuss their first experiences with sex. Upon learning that Nick is a virgin who has never been kissed, Sophie kisses Nick. Although Andrea and Sophie are impressed by Nick's good manners and lack of guile, they are repulsed by Roger's womanizing, and decide to go home. Nick runs after them and asks to spend more time with them, but they gently decline and depart in a taxi.

Nick chooses to continue the quest. They go to a party at Joyce's apartment, which Roger has explicitly not been invited to. There they find Joyce's secretary drunk, and Roger encourages Nick to take advantage of her vulnerable state. Once in the bedroom, Nick has moral reservations about the advice and allows her to fall asleep untouched. Meanwhile, Roger mocks Joyce's new lover in front of the other guests; Joyce fires him and asks him to leave the party. Nick follows Roger to the exit.

With Nick's window of opportunity closing rapidly, they agree to go with a "Fail Safe" plan, which turns out to be an underground brothel. After arriving at the brothel and paying a sex worker, Roger suddenly has doubts about letting Nick have sex with her, and drags Nick back to his apartment. The following day, Roger hears his sister's message from his answering machine saying that no one has seen her son Nick for two days, so Roger tells Nick to call his mother. Nick travels back to Ohio. 

Some time later, Roger shows up to Nick's high school cafeteria to teach Nick and his friends about seduction.

