Dave, Adam, and Doofer, three members of the Kappa Omicron Kappa fraternity, are accused of stealing money from the fraternity treasury and are run out of the house. Doofer suggests that they find the real thief by reviewing tapes from Adam's room, which Adam has rigged with a video camera in order to surreptitiously record his sexual conquests.  In order to enter the house, the three dress up as "Adina," "Roberta," and "Daisy" to attend a ladies night party at the frat. The other brothers mistake the three boys for tall, ugly girls and throw them out of the house. The women of the Delta Omicron Gamma sorority rescue them and invite them to stay at their sorority house.

Adam learns that a KOK member named Jimmy has moved into his old room. He decides to dress as Adina and seduce Jimmy so he can get the tape.  He plans to give Jimmy a roofie pill to make him fall asleep.  However, Jimmy, thinking Adam is a woman, slips him a roofie as well and both pass out.

The three boys learn that the KOKs are bringing Adam's tapes onto the annual KOK-Tail Cruise to serve as entertainment for the alumni.  They help the DOG sisters win an all-girl football game, knowing that tickets to the cruise are the prize. Leah dances with Dave/Daisy and confesses to wanting a relationship. "Daisy," knowing the ruse will end soon when the group finds the tape, tells Leah "she" is moving back to Minnesota. 

Daisy changes back into Dave for a job interview with an alumnus. After the interview, the three boys change back into their feminine garb and share a group hug in celebration. Leah walks in while Daisy and Adina are embracing and mistakenly thinks that they are in a relationship and the "Minnesota" excuse was fake. She storms out with Daisy following her.

The alumnus later grabs Leah on the rear and she slaps him across the face. He calls for Leah to be thrown overboard. Daisy reveals her true identity as Dave to stop the men, while Roberta is exposed as Doofer when he is caught with the tape, and Adina is exposed as Adam. The KOK High Council convenes to determine their fate, with Dave lamenting the way they have historically treated the DOGs and states he no longer wants to be a member of KOK. Dave accuses fraternity president Spence of stealing the money, and Doofer produces the tape to prove it. The KOKs throw Spence overboard.

Later, at the KOK house, Adam is named president. Dave meets with Leah and starts their relationship over, truthfully this time, and Doofer begins a relationship with one of the DOG girls.

