Justine Last is a bored thirty-year-old woman living in small town Texas with her  husband Phil, a house painter who spends most of his free time smoking marijuana with his best friend, Bubba. Phil wants to start a family with Justine but she is not yet ready. Justine works at Retail Rodeo, the local big-box store, with cynical and young Cheryl, ditzy and older Gwen in cosmetics, and security guard Corny.

Young, shy Holden is hired as a cashier at work and Justine introduces herself. They start to spend time together, and she confides in him that she feels underappreciated at home. Holden tells Justine about his obsession with J. D. Salinger's novel ''The Catcher in the Rye'', hence his self-assigned first name, from Holden Caulfield.

Holden becomes smitten with Justine, but when he makes a move on her, she rejects him. He writes her a letter in which he says if she does not meet him at 5 p.m. that day, she will never see him again. Though Justine is hesitant at first, she gives in and meets up with Holden at a motel where they have sex.

Justine's marriage deteriorates as her affair with Holden continues. One night, she spots Bubba's truck in the motel parking lot. Convinced he knows, she tells Holden they must stop for awhile. Feeling guilty, Justine suggests to Phil that they attend a church bible study Corny invited them to. Soon after arriving, Justine spots the motel desk clerk and insists they leave immediately.

Justine speaks to Holden in private at work the following day, explaining she can't see him anymore. Bubba invites Justine to his house and blackmails her into having sex with him. Holden, who was following Justine, sees them through a window.

Holden does not show at work the next day but is drunkenly waiting in Justine's car when her shift ends. He calls her a whore and demands an apology, offering to kill her husband to free her from her marriage. Justine then becomes desperate to extricate herself from their relationship. Talking to his parents, she tells them he is mentally ill, has imagined a romantic liaison between them and suggests Holden be hospitalized. That night after feeling unwell all day, Justine takes a pregnancy test. The results come up positive; Phil is overjoyed but Justine feels uneasy as she doesn't know who the father is.

The following day at work, $15,000 is suspected stolen by Holden. Justine is then interrogated by her boss Jack about their relationship. Holden later brags about the stolen money to her and his plans for them to run away. He tells her to meet him the following morning at a hotel. When Justine gets home, Phil, Bubba, and Bubba's new girlfriend are all waiting to celebrate the baby news. A doctor phones Phil to tell him that his sperm, recently tested for fertility, is "no good". Confused, he protests to the doctor that his wife is pregnant and hangs up. Bubba assures Phil the doctors made a mistake and that "they don't know everything". Phil then asks aloud if this means Justine isn't pregnant.

The next morning, Justine packs a suitcase. Waiting at a traffic light, she assesses whether she should stay or run away with Holden. At Retail Rodeo she tells her manager where Holden is hiding. Later at home, she watches a news report announcing the police have surrounded Holden at the hotel in a standoff that results in his suicide. The next day, Bubba tells Justine that Phil saw the motel room on the credit card statement, and then begs her not to tell Phil about their encounter.  

When Justine arrives home, Phil tearfully asks if she has been having an affair. When she says, "yes", he strikes her. Phil expresses remorse at hitting her and asks if the baby is his. Justine assures him he is the father. Phil still insists on knowing who she had an affair with, and when he asks if it was with Corny the security guard, Justine lies and says yes. At work the next morning, Corny has a bruised face and his arm in a sling. Cheryl informs Justine that after Bible study the previous night, two guys with painted faces jumped him.

As the movie concludes, Justine still works at Retail Rodeo. In a narrated scene, Phil brings the newborn baby to Justine, who is deep in thought in bed. She lovingly holds the baby and the couple seems content.

