David Kim lives in San Jose, California, with his daughter Margot. His wife Pamela was diagnosed with lymphoma and died before Margot entered high school. One night Margot attempts to call David but he is asleep. The next morning David cannot get in contact with Margot. Believing she is attending her piano lesson, David calls the instructor but is informed Margot cancelled her lessons six months prior. He discovers she pocketed and transferred the money to a now-deleted Venmo account. He calls the police and the case is assigned to Detective Rosemary Vick. Accessing Margot's accounts, David learns she has become a loner since Pamela's death. Vick reports Margot made a fake ID, and shows traffic camera footage of her car outside of the city, suggesting she may have run away.

Unconvinced, David discovers Margot had been using a streaming site called YouCast and befriended a young woman named Hannah. Vick reports back Hannah's innocence, having been sighted in Pittsburgh at the time of the disappearance. From Margot's Tumblr, David notices she frequently visited Barbosa Lake, located near the highway where she was last seen. There, he finds her Pokémon keychain and the police locate her car underwater. Her body is not inside, but there is an envelope with the money. A search party is arranged, but a storm slows the process.

After an altercation David has with a boy who claims to know where Margot is, Vick tells him he can no longer participate in the investigation. Undeterred, David visits TMZ, which displays the crime scene photographs, and notices his brother Peter's jacket. He discovers text messages between Margot and Peter, hinting at an incestuous relationship. Upon confrontation, Peter explains they were only smoking marijuana and confiding in each other. He chastises David for being negligent towards Margot who was still grieving Pamela's death. Vick calls David and tells him an ex-convict named Randy Cartoff confessed to raping and killing Margot before committing suicide.

An empty-casket funeral is arranged for Margot. As David is uploading photos to a funeral streaming site he notices the website's stock photograph features Hannah's YouCast profile picture. He contacts her and discovers she is a stock model who does not know Margot while the police never called her. Attempting to report this to Vick, he instead reaches a dispatcher who reveals Vick volunteered to take the case and was not assigned to it, despite her claims. He discovers she knew Randy through a volunteer program for ex-convicts. Reporting this to the sheriff, David confronts Vick at the funeral who is arrested. 

Vick agrees to confess in exchange for leniency for her son Robert. She reveals Robert was using the account as Hannah to get close to Margot since he had a crush on her. Margot sent the money to Robert's Venmo account after he lied about being a working-class girl whose mother was in the hospital. Ashamed for lying, Robert wanted to return the money back in person and followed her to Barbosa Lake to reveal himself. He surprised her by getting into her car and she ran, with him accidentally pushing her off a cliff into a 50-foot-deep ravine. Assuming the accident was fatal and could be perceived as manslaughter or even first-degree murder, Vick decided to cover up the incident, pushing the car into the lake and fabricating the fake ID evidence. After the keychain and the car were found, Vick turned Randy into the fall guy and staged his confession and suicide.

Vick notifies David of Margot still being in the ravine, claiming she could not have lived without water even if she survived the fall. David tells the police to head back, remembering the recent storm would have provided her with enough water. The rescue crew finds Margot severely injured but alive.

Two years later, Margot applied for college to major in piano. David tells her Pamela would have been proud of her, acknowledging her grief to help overcome it. Margot changes her desktop picture from one of Pamela and her to the one David sent her of the two of them, reflecting a closer relationship between them.

