In a rough part of town, a carrot-eating drifter and military veteran named Smith sees a heavily-pregnant woman fleeing a hitman. Smith kills the hitman by stabbing him in the head with a carrot and retrieves the woman's pistol. More thugs arrive, led by the ruthless Hertz. The woman goes into labor and Smith delivers her baby boy during a shootout, but the woman is shot dead. Smith narrowly escapes with the newborn. Smith abandons the baby in a park, hoping someone will adopt the baby, but a passing woman is killed with a shot from Hertz's sniper rifle. Realizing that Hertz is trying to kill the baby, Smith saves him and tries unsuccessfully to leave him with a prostitute named Donna Quintano. 

Hertz arrives at the brothel and tortures Donna for information; Smith returns and kills Hertz's henchmen. After a brief confrontation, Smith shoots Hertz and leaves with Donna and the baby. Hertz survives as he wore a bulletproof vest. Taking Donna to his hideout, Smith realizes that the baby (whom he names Oliver) stops crying when he hears heavy metal music; he concludes that Oliver's mother lived near a heavy metal club. Pursued by Hertz, Smith shoots his way out of the hideout, and he and Donna head to a nearby club. Above the club they discover an apartment with medical equipment and two dead, pregnant women; Smith concludes that the women were all impregnated with one man's sperm in order to give birth to matching bone marrow donors. 

When Smith and Donna have sex in a motel room, a squad of gunmen attack; Smith shoots all of them without stopping intercourse. Smith notices that the gunmen had Hammerson guns, unavailable to the public. Smith brings Donna and Oliver to a war museum and hides them in a M24 Chaffee tank for safekeeping. Smith infiltrates the Hammerson factory and hears Hertz and Hammerson saying that they do not want the next president to repeal the right to bear arms. He also notices that Hammerson owns a German Shepherd dog named Duchess. Smith booby-traps the facility with firearms, allowing him to kill the thugs and escape. During a shootout, Hertz reveals that he discovered that Smith is a former Army Ranger whose wife and kid were killed in a shootout in a burger joint. Smith sees an article about Senator Rutledge, a Democratic presidential candidate who favors stricter gun laws. Smith deduces that Rutledge has cancer and requires a bone-marrow transplant. 

Due to which, Rutledge had impregnated the woman with his sperm (and why Hertz and Hammerson want Oliver dead). If the infants die, the senator will not receive a transplant and would be unable to run for president. Smith tells Donna to leave town and contacts one of Rutledge's henchmen to request an appointment. Meeting on an airplane, the senator confirms Smith's suspicions and Smith notices dog hair on Rutledge's trousers. Deducing that the hair belongs to Duchess and that the senator made a deal with Hammerson, Smith takes Rutledge hostage. Hertz appears and reveals that he agreed to help Rutledge find a bone-marrow donor, on the condition that Rutledge protects Hertz's constitutional right to bear arms when elected president. Smith kills the senator, whose assassination he explains "will cause public outrage and trigger immense support" for his gun control proposals.

Smith parachutes from the airplane and kills several pursuing henchmen, but is himself shot and collapses after he lands, where he awakens in Hammerson's mansion; Hertz tortures him, breaking his fingers in an attempt to learn where Smith sent Donna and Oliver. As Hertz prepares to cut Smith's eyes, Smith breaks free and kills Hammerson and several thugs. Struggling to use his gun, Smith places live bullets between his broken fingers and detonates them with a fireplace, critically wounding Hertz. Both struggle with pistols, but Smith fires first, killing Hertz. Smith travels with Duchess to an ice-cream parlor where Donna works as a waitress while watching Oliver. Surprised to see each other alive, he and Donna kiss passionately. Three amateur armed robbers enter the parlor; his hands in bandages, Smith shoots them by using a carrot to pull the trigger.

