Seventeen people board a Hong Kong minibus which is going from Mong Kok to Tai Po. The driver Suet, Yau Tsi-chi and Yuki, who are visiting their respective dates; Fat, an aging gangster; Mook Sau-ying, a fortune-telling insurance salesperson; Shun, a computer technician; Pat and Bobby, a married couple; Blind Fai, a drug addict; Au Yeung Wai, a music store salesperson; Lavina, a quiet, buck-toothed woman; Airplane and Glu-Stick, rowdy boys; and university students Tsing, Peter, Dawg, and Hung.  As the minibus enters Lion Rock Tunnel, Fat notices the traffic seemingly disappear, and several other passengers remark upon how quiet the streets have become.  The university students leave on the first stop, and one of them immediately becomes ill.

By the second stop, the passengers come to believe they are the only people remaining in Hong Kong.  They propose various explanations, though Mook insists destiny has brought them together to experience a paranormal event.  Before leaving, the passengers exchange phone numbers.  Yau and Yuki leave together, and as Yuki talks about missing her boyfriend, Yau sees a man in a gas mask, though he keeps this from Yuki.  After she leaves, Yau encounters the university students, all of whom have now become ill.  They beg him for help as they melt before him.  Yau swerves to avoid them on his bicycle as he speeds past, and the last remaining student curses him as he dies.  Yau crosses the tunnel to return home but finds nobody there.

Each of the passengers receives a phone call comprising noises and mechanical screeches.  They meet at a diner to discuss it, where Shun reveals he has performed audio analysis on it.  He decodes English phrases that Au Yeung recognizes as lyrics from David Bowie's song "Space Oddity".  No one understands its significance, though Mook continues to insist on a paranormal interpretation.  After each describes their background, Au Yeung bursts into flames from the explosion by his electronics  and dies.  Spooked, Yau describes the man in a gas mask, though Yuki claims not to have been with him at the time.  Yau spots another man in a gas mask, and he, Bobby, and Fat chase after the man.

Before catching him, they discover Lavina's body, surmising that she was raped before dying of a possibly-contagious illness.  The man, revealed to be Japanese, claims through a mobile translation app to be there to save them and a former classmate of Yau's.  Yau denies knowing him.  As the Japanese man escapes, he says something about "fuku", which they speculate could be a reference to the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster.  Before returning with the others, Yau receives a phone call from his girlfriend, Yi, in which she claims he has disappeared for six years.  The call ends abruptly as she makes oblique references to Major Tom and Tai Mo Shan.

Bobby suddenly dies shortly after Yau's return.  Fat sends Suet to retrieve and refuel his bus upon learning of Yi's phone call.  On the way, Suet is forced to kill a zombified Blind Fai with a cleaver.  On Suet's return, Glu-Stick accuses Airplane of raping Lavina, who was an attractive thief in disguise.  Glu-Stick says Lavina died mysteriously during her rape, but, undeterred by her death, Airplane continued assaulting her.  Disgusted, the others discuss banishing Airplane, though Pat demands Airplane be killed for spreading Lavina's infection and causing Bobby's death.  Yau reluctantly agrees, and each ritually stabs Airplane to death, except for Glu-Stick.

While Shun and Glu-Stick disposes of Airplane's body, Airplane suddenly revives.  Shun argues his attack was the least vicious and offers to help Airplane get revenge on his killers.  Airplane agrees, only to be killed again by Shun.  As they board the minibus to go to Tai Mo Shan, the group sees more gas-masked people accompanied by armour.  Two of the armour ram the minibus, but the damaged vehicle escapes and continues on its journey.  After becoming annoyed with Glu-Stick, they briefly banish him before allowing him back in, along with Fai, who is inexplicably still alive.  As they drive toward Tai Mo Shan, a red rain falls on the minibus, and several passengers experience regret at leaving Tai Tai Po and back to Kowloon.

