Recently divorced Meg Altman and her eleven-year-old daughter, Sarah, move into a four-story brownstone in New York City's Upper West Side. The house's previous owner, a reclusive millionaire, installed a "panic room" to protect the occupants from intruders. The room is reinforced by concrete and steel on all sides and a thick steel door. There is also an extensive security system with multiple surveillance cameras and a public address system.

On Meg and Sarah's first night, three men break into the home: Junior, the previous owner's grandson; Burnham, an employee of the home's security company; and Raoul, a thug Junior has recruited. They intend to steal bearer bonds locked inside a floor safe inside the panic room by the previous owners, as Junior doesn't want to share them with his extended family when his grandfather's estate is settled in probate.

When Meg awakes during the night to use the bathroom, she sees the men on the security cameras, and she and Sarah rush to the panic room. To force them out, the men pump propane gas into the room's air vents. Meg ignites the gas while she and Sarah cover themselves with fireproof blankets; the ignited propane leaves Junior badly burned. Meg taps into the main telephone line and calls her ex-husband, Stephen. As she attempts to explain their situation, the intruders cut the line, abruptly ending the call.

When all attempts to breach the room fail, Junior gives up on the robbery, while letting slip that there is more money in the safe than he initially disclosed. When he attempts to leave, Raoul fatally shoots him then forces Burnham to continue with the robbery. Stephen arrives and is immediately taken hostage. Raoul severely beats him, making sure Meg sees it on the security camera. Sarah, a diabetic, then suffers a seizure as her glucagon syringes are in her bedroom.

Raoul tricks Meg into thinking it is safe to temporarily leave the panic room and, when she leaves to retrieve Sarah's medication, the men enter the room with Sarah inside. Meg manages to throw the med kit in just as Burnham closes the door, inadvertently crushing Raoul's hand. She pleads with the men to give Sarah her medication, which Burnham does. Two policemen later arrive at the house following up on Stephen's earlier 911 call and complaints from the neighbors. To protect Sarah, Meg convinces the officers everything is fine and they leave. Meanwhile, Burnham opens the safe and finds $22&nbsp;million in bearer bonds inside.

As the men prepare to leave using Sarah as a hostage, Meg leads them into an ambush where she uses a sledgehammer to knock Raoul over a banister and into a stairwell. As Burnham flees, the injured Raoul crawls back up and overpowers Meg, preparing to bludgeon her with the sledgehammer. Burnham, hearing Sarah's terrified screams, rushes back and shoots Raoul, killing him. The police, alerted by Meg's earlier odd behavior, arrive back at the house in force and apprehend Burnham, who is forced to drop the bearer bonds, which scatter in the wind.

A few days later, Meg and Sarah search the newspaper for a new, smaller home, having recovered from their harrowing ordeal.

