A Bible verse, 1 Peter 5:8, appears onscreen. An unseen man narrates with a story about his childhood, where his mother explained the circumstances that surround The Devil roaming the earth. A man jumps to his death from a skyscraper, leaving a suicide note about the Devil's approaching presence. Shortly thereafter, an elevator in the building gets stuck with five people inside: a temporary security guard, a mechanic/former Marine, a mattress salesman, a young woman, and an elderly woman. A repairman cannot get the elevator working and nearly dies while attempting to do this.

In the elevator, the lights frequently flicker and turn off completely for intervals. During an interval, one of the security guards, Ramirez, watching through the security camera sees a face on the monitor he believes is the devil, but his partner Lustig doubts it. At the same time, the young woman feels something on her back and the group becomes suspicious of the mattress salesman. When the lights return, the young woman has a bite mark on her back and the salesman has blood on his hands. Detective Bowden, who was investigating the earlier suicide, is called to the scene.

The lights go out again, and the elevator mirrors break. When the lights return, the mattress salesman's jugular vein is impaled with a broken mirror shard and he dies, escalating it into a crime scene investigation. Outside, security guards, the repair technician, and the fire department attempt to get in, to no avail. The passengers begin to suspect each other, while the security guards monitoring through the camera talk to them one-way via the speaker, as they cannot hear the passengers. As the group argues, the repair technician's rappelling device breaks and he falls to his death on top of the elevator, terrifying the occupants. Ramirez tries to convince the detectives that this could be The Devil's Meeting, but is unsuccessful. An unknown woman attempts to enter the building unsuccessfully, and goes around to the back.

Bowden and his partner use the sign-in sheet and elevator camera to identify the group. The temporary guard is identified as Ben Larson, who has a criminal record of assault and beating someone into a coma. The mattress salesman is identified as Vince McCormick, who lost many people their assets through a Ponzi scheme. The young woman is identified as Sarah Caraway, who is married to a rich man and plans on leaving him after stealing his money, as she has done before. The elderly woman is identified as Jane Kowski, who was caught on the security camera stealing a woman’s wallet. The mechanic and former Marine cannot be identified due to him not signing in, making him the main suspect.

Upon review of security footage, the detectives see the mechanic had entered the building with a bag he does not have anymore. They find the bag filled with tools hidden in the lobby bathroom and suspect him more. Suddenly, the lights in the elevator flicker and shut off a fourth time. When they turn back on, the older woman is seen hanging from the ceiling by her neck via a light cable.

Ramirez shows Bowden the devil face he saw earlier, but Bowden does not believe him. Bowden then discusses the death of his wife and son: they were killed in a hit-and-run five years prior, and the driver left a note that said "I'm so sorry" at the scene.

As the detectives investigate the Marine, Ben and the Marine get in a fight, each suspecting the other as the killer. Sarah tells Ben to kill the Marine before he kills them and Ben attacks the Marine. Bowden comes back to the control room and defuses the situation by having the passengers put their hands on the wall. Out of answers, Bowden asks Ramirez how to save them, if the devil is truly there. Ramirez responds, "They all die."  Lustig goes into the basement to shut off the power where the fire fighters are drilling into the wall.  He notices a shorted wire on the floor and attempts to move it, despite the wire sparking in a large puddle of water.

The detectives talk to the lawyer the young woman was supposed to meet with and try to contact Sarah's husband. Lustig, severely shocked, causes a scene by stumbling into the lobby and collapsing amidst the crowd. Bowden calls for the medics. In the elevator, Sarah takes her hands off the wall, but the Marine tells her to put them back. Bowden discovers that Sarah took all her husband's money and her husband might know it. After learning the husband owns the building's security company, they suspect the husband hired Ben to kill Sarah and that he killed the others to cover it. However, the fourth outage ends with Ben's neck broken.

The Marine and Sarah suspect each other, arming themselves with mirror shards, but Bowden defuses the situation by telling them about his recovery from alcoholism following his family's death. The lights go out again, and Sarah's throat is slit. The Marine tries to stop the bleeding.

The unknown woman from before is brought into the control room. She tells them that the Marine is her fiancé. He actually came for a job interview and he did not want to take his tools along, so he hid them. He has requested his fiancee to fetch him after the interview. His name is Tony Janekowski. The detectives realize he had signed in, and Jane Kowski, the elderly woman's presumed identity, was not real. The Devil manifests in the form of the elderly woman. Tony tries to trade his life for Sarah, but the devil says he cannot do that. Tony grabs the radio and confesses that he fled from a fatal accident five years ago. Bowden realizes that Tony is responsible for the death of his family.

The Devil, powerless now that Tony has repented, vanishes after causing the elevator to plunge several floors. The firefighters are finally able to get in, but the old lady is gone. As the corpses of Sarah, Ben, Vince, and the repair technician are wheeled away, Bowden decides to take Tony into custody, and, while en route, reveals to Tony that it was his family in that accident. Much to his own surprise, he forgives Tony.

