James Reese, a personal aide to the U.S. ambassador in France, lives comfortably in Paris with his girlfriend Caroline, but his real passion is his side job as a low-level operative for the CIA. Due to a shortage of operatives in France, he is eventually partnered with field agent Charlie Wax. However, Reese finds Wax detained by French Customs as Wax refuses to surrender cans of his favorite energy drink. Despite the apparent triviality of the situation, Wax continues to verbally abuse French Customs until Reese uses his diplomatic authority to allow Wax's luggage through customs.

Once in the car, Wax apologizes for his behavior and reveals that the cans actually held pieces of his personal sidearm. Wax then explains that he has been sent to Paris to investigate a Triad drug ring indirectly responsible for the death of the niece of the Secretary of Defense. During the investigation, Wax raids a Triad run restaurant and warehouse where he reveals that his true objective is to trace money back to a circle of Pakistani terrorists. Evidence leads them to the terrorist hideout in a rundown apartment, resulting in an armed confrontation wherein most of the terrorists are killed. There, Wax and Reese learn that the terrorists plan to infiltrate the U.S. embassy with explosives hidden beneath their burkas. As they collect evidence, they find photographs of Reese pinned to a wall.

Ultimately, Reese learns that the terrorists are targeting a summit meeting. During dinner, Wax realizes that Reese's fiancée Caroline is a sleeper agent who was assigned to infiltrate them. When confronted, Caroline shoots Reese in the shoulder and escapes through a window, before a car picks her up on the street below. Caroline plans to detonate an explosive vest at the summit while the other remaining terrorist speeds towards a US motorcade in an attempted suicide attack, although Wax destroys the vehicle with a rocket launcher just in time. Reese then finds Caroline at the summit and attempts to dissuade her from carrying out her mission, but she attempts to detonate her vest anyway and Reese is ultimately forced to kill her. As the U.S. official from the motorcade arrives at the summit, she berates Reese for inconveniencing her, and Wax reminds Reese of the often ungrateful and ignorant people they protect.

As Wax leaves Paris, Reese escorts him to his plane, where Wax offers a full-time partnership. The two play a game of chess on the tarmac, placing their handguns on a utility cart, Reese revealing that he is now carrying a Desert Eagle pistol, and Wax welcomes him to the club as his partner.

