Science teacher Jessica Martin lives with her husband Craig and their son Ricky. One morning, after Jessica takes Ricky to the bus stop, intruders break into her house, slay her housekeeper, kidnap and confine her in an attic, and smash the landline. Jessica manages to use the wires of the broken phone to contact a random number.

Ryan is hanging out at Santa Monica Pier with his friend Chad when he comes across his ex, Chloe, who dumped him. Hoping to get back with her, he offers to help with the fundraiser being held there; he gets Chad to hand out the fliers until he returns with the t-shirts. On his way, Ryan gets a call on his cellphone, from Jessica who tells him she's been kidnapped and her phone is shattered.

Although Ryan thinks it's a prank, Jessica gets him to go to the police, where he reports it to Sergeant Bob Mooney. A fight between officers and gang members breaks out, Mooney intervenes and tells him to report the kidnapping on the fourth floor. However, Ryan can't find anyone on the way up, and will lose the call due to poor cell service if he continues up. Ethan Greer, the leader of the kidnappers, asks Jessica for Craig's location. When she refuses to cooperate, he leaves to get Ricky. Overhearing them, Ryan realizes the kidnapping is real, hurries to Ricky's school, only to see the boy kidnapped. Hijacking a security officer's car, he gives chase, but loses them. As his phone battery is running low, he takes a gun in the car and uses it to steal a charger.

Checking on the kidnapping claim, Mooney visits Jessica's. Meeting Dana Bayback, the kidnappers' sole female accomplice posing as Jessica, leads him to believe it is a false alarm. With Ricky in tow, Ethan returns and asks Jessica where Craig is hiding. Jessica, fearing the kidnappers will kill them all once Craig is found, attacks him, but is overpowered and confesses it is a bar at LAX. Before he departs, a woman playing loud music in her car pulls up next to Ryan, but he silences his phone before Ethan realises.

A cross-connection between cell lines forces Ryan to take a nearby lawyer's car and his cell to maintain the connection. At the airport, he plants the gun on one of the kidnappers, triggering the alarm. When security intervenes, they show they are police officers for the LAPD and then detain Craig. Mooney sees a newsflash of Ryan holding up a store for the charger (and the car and phone jacking) and calls Jessica's house, realizing the voice on the answering machine is different from that of the woman he met at the house.

The kidnappers escort Craig to his bank safe deposit box to retrieve a bag, but Ryan intercepts it. While Ethan chases him, he drops and breaks the lawyer's cellphone. When he opens Craig's bag, he sees a video camera with a disturbing video of LAPD Detectives Ethan, Mad Dog, Dimitri, Dana Bayback, Deason, and Mooney's friend Jack Tanner, robbing, torturing, and murdering two drug dealers, exposing them all as dirty cops.

Ryan steals the lawyer's car again, from the police impound lot, and finds his own cellphone he left in the seat. Mooney returns to the Martins' to verify some things, where he kills Bayback in self-defense when she fires at him, grazing his neck. His friend, Tanner pulls up, hearing of the shootout, acting as a concerned friend. Back at the safe house, Mad Dog realizes Jessica has been using the landline seeking help. He attempts to rape her, but she nicks his brachial artery, causing him to bleed to death in seconds.

Tanner tells Ethan of Bayback’s death and the forensic team at the Martin’s house, looking for evidence. Before Jessica and Ricky can escape, they are caught by Ethan's gang, but Ryan contacts Ethan before he can hurt them and makes a deal: the videotape in exchange for the Martin family at Santa Monica Pier.

At the pier Ryan, in disguise, refuses to give up the camera until the Martins are freed, but Mooney and Tanner find him when Chloe inadvertently exposes him. Tanner sends Mooney away with Dimitri for medical attention, abducts Ryan, bringing him to Ethan. He crushes the videotape to pieces, and Tanner radios Deason to execute the Martins (although he decides to wait until their return to the safe house to avoid attention).

Mooney overhears the transmission, overpowers Dimitri and handcuffs him before returning to the pier. Ryan escapes to a boathouse, thanks to Chad's distraction, and Tanner and Ethan chase after him. He knocks Tanner out, but is overpowered by Ethan before Mooney shows up. After a brief altercation, Ryan sees Ethan approaching Mooney from behind and calls his cell. The ringtone exposes his position, and Mooney shoots him.

Jessica strangles Deason with her handcuff chain in the van, then frees her husband and son; however, he recovers and is attempting to kill them when Ryan intervenes, slamming his head in the car door. While Ryan and Mooney are being treated by paramedics, Tanner is also exposed, as Ryan had copied the whole video on his cellphone. Jessica finally meets Ryan, the man who risked his life to save her family, and Ryan humorously asks her to never call him again.

