Harold Speck was a traveling salesman, making the rounds in a small town when he encountered an old man in a diner. The man approached him with a strange, uncomfortable question, before abruptly leaving. Shortly after his visit, Harold was found dead in an alley, his eyelids cut off and a strange symbol in his grasp, a circular shape with a line drawn through it. Federal Bureau of Investigation Agent Thomas Mackelway, recently suspended for brutally beating suspected serial killer Raymond Starkey, was brought in to investigate Harold's death. He and his partner Fran Kulok soon become the recipients of a series of taunting faxes from someone claiming to be the killer, leading them to discover the existence of Suspect Zero, a mysterious criminal responsible for hundreds of unsolved deaths and leaving no physical evidence behind. With the help of a mysterious informant known only as "Mr. Blue", Mackelway and Kulok follow the clues left by Suspect Zero in order to find the truth behind Harold Speck's tragic and mysterious death.

When another body is found in the trunk of a car, the agents trace the ownership of the car to a room in a halfway house occupied by Benjamin O'Ryan. Upon further investigation, they discover that the room is decorated with obsessive-compulsive sketches of a crossed-circle symbol, a Bible with sketches of missing persons, and a book on ritual. As Mackelway begins to question the other occupants of the halfway house, one of them informs him that the symbol actually represents a zero, not a circle. The killer also sends the agents a mysterious information, prompting Mackelway to focus on O'Ryan. O'Ryan claims to be an ex-member of the FBI, but the agents must make a critical decision is O'Ryan the key to catching the elusive Suspect Zero, or is he Suspect Zero himself? With the evidence they have, fiery passion for justice, as well as hope, the agents must make a calculated guess to finally bring down the elusive figure who has eluded authorities for so long.

It is only when Mackelway uses his abilities to uncover the name of Starkey's partner in crime, along with evidence proving O'Ryan's innocence, that the case is solved. The evening was warm and still as Mackelway and Kulok drove towards the bar. They had received a call about an attempted kidnapping and were on their way to help the victim. When they arrived, they found O'Ryan standing outside, the body of a man lying near his feet. To their shock, they recognized him as Starkey, a man that had recently been released from prison. Evidence soon came to light that O'Ryan was part of Project Icarus, an experimental program aimed at developing and harnessing telepathic abilities in individuals for military purposes. O'Ryan had used these abilities to understand the actions of serial killers, leading him to hunt them down. It was then that Mackelway discovered that he too had limited access to these abilities.

Kulok and Mackelway's superiors were unconvinced by O'Ryan's claims that the man had been the victim of a serial killer rather than the perpetrator. It took Mackelway's use of his abilities to uncover the identity of Starkey's partner in crime, as well as conclusive evidence that O'Ryan was indeed innocent, for the case to be solved. Finally, there was justice for the young girl who was almost taken away, with O'Ryan’s use of his special abilities providing the solution to the case.

Suspect Zero is revealed to be a man who drives cross-country in a refrigerated truck as part of an elaborate scheme to target and kidnap children. It's only when FBI agent Mackelway discovers signs of freezer burns on his victims that he knows they were being transported in the truck. Mackelway makes his way to a local carnival in pursuit of the truck driver and is surprised to find the child he had seen in his vision as being "captured" is now free. He is then suddenly approached by O'Ryan, who captures Mackelway, though spares him after witnessing his bravery. O'Ryan and Mackelway team up and eventually find out the identity of Suspect Zero and trace him back to his ranch, where they discover numerous shallow graves. In an ensuing chase, both vehicles crash off the road and Kulok manages to rescue a child, while Mackelway kills Suspect Zero. But O'Ryan attempts to convince Mackelway to put an end to his suffering by killing him. When Mackelway refuses, O'Ryan pretends to attack, prompting Kulok to shoot him in order to protect her partner.

