Across a mansion in Bhawanigarh, Rajasthan in 2004, the priests confine a malevolent spirit named Manjulika, who is hell-bent on attacking the family's daughter-in-law Anjulika to a room. After this, the family deserts the mansion for safety.

18 years later, in Himachal Pradesh, Ruhaan Randhawa meets Reet Thakur who is on a trip to Bhawanigarh via Chandigarh to marry her fiancée Sagar reluctantly. They board a bus to Chandigarh but cut short their journey for attending a music carnival and later discover that the bus they were supposed to travel met with an accident, killing everyone on board. Subsequently, the Thakurs, who are owners of the mansion that was deserted 18 years ago, assumed her to be dead. Reet tries contacting her family but over the phone she overhears a conversation between Trisha and Sagar, realizing an affair brewing between them. Seeking to earn them the gift of marriage so she could avoid falling into it, Reet plays along her family's presumption about her demise and travels to Bhawanigarh with a hesitating Ruhaan.

They decide to hide in the deserted ancestral mansion, but Chote Pandit, a priest, spots the doors of the mansion opened and informs the Thakurs, who along with the villagers enter the mansion and spot Ruhaan, who covers up the situation by lying that Reet's spirit led him there and her final wish is to see her family living in the ancestral mansion and that too with Trisha being married. Under Ruhaan's influence, The Thakurs fix Trisha's wedding with Sagar. Due to his presumed ability of communicating with spirits, Ruhaan becomes popular as ''Rooh Baba'', where he and Reet become friends. When Ruhaan is led to the room where the spirit was trapped, Anjulika, Reet's sister-in-law, warns him to stay away from the room and reveals that the spirit is actually Anjulika's twin sister Manjulika. 

The sisters had migrated to the mansion when their father Debanshu was asked to manage accounts for the Thakurs. Debanshu's biased affection towards Anjulika's talents instilled jealousy in Manjulika which turned into hatred. In 2004, both sisters fell in love with Uday Thakur, Reet's elder brother. However, Uday reciprocated Anjulika's feelings leaving Manjulika fuming and deceived. Manjulika, who sought solace in learning black magic, decided to use the magic as a weapon against Anjulika. On the night of Uday and Anjulika's wedding, Manjulika brutally stabbed Debanshu for finding out the truth and set out to murder Anjulika, but she saved herself and stabbed Manjulika in self-defense killing her. Despite being dead, Manjulika did not leave the family alone as her spirit continued to harm them and paralyzed Uday by pushing him off the balcony. The priests captured Manjulika and lock her in the third floor.

After the flashback, Reet's father reveals to Ruhaan that Manjulika's curse had killed eight members of their family. One night, Chote Pandit finds Ruhaan and Reet roaming around the mansion and discovers the truth. With the help of his elder brother Bade Pandit and his wife whose business is being affected due to Ruhaan's popularity, Chote Pandit spearheads a search in the mansion. Knowing that no one would enter Manjulika's room, Reet resolves to hide there and Chote Pandit's accusations are proved false to the family. Freed, Manjulika attacks Anjulika, who discovers the truth about Reet being alive and joins hands with Ruhaan and Reet to ward off the spirit. They take help from the same priest who captured Manjulika's spirit but he tells them that he requires three days. Manjulika's spirit possesses the priest and makes him kill his disciples before being killed by himself. Ruhaan encounters the spirit and falls off the terrace out of fear.

Ruhaan returns to the palace, conversing in Bengali, and claims himself to be Manjulika revealing that he is possessed. The Thakurs spot Reet and learn that she is alive. Ruhaan attacks Anjulika, who uses Reet as a human shield by threatening to slit her throat if Ruhaan attacks her and addresses him as "Anjulika", which confuses the family. Ruhaan reveals that he has been putting up an act of being possessed by the spirit and that the woman who died in 2004 was actually Anjulika while one who is living with them is the real Manjulika.

Back in 2004, after killing Debanshu with the help of the priest, revealed to be Manjulika's accomplice, Manjulika influenced Anjulika using black magic and stole her identity. Disguised as Manjulika under the influence of black magic, Anjulika attacked Manjulika who stabbed her to death under the pretext of self-defense. When Uday discovered the truth, Manjulika pushed him off the balcony, paralyzing him and thus preventing him from telling anyone. She also killed eight members of the family for learning the truth. Presently, Anjulika's spirit attacks Manjulika and imprisons her in the same room in which she got locked in 2004. Anjulika's spirit has a moment with her family and asks Reet's father to forgive her since it revealed the truth of Anjulika and Manjulika. She thanks Ruhaan and asks the family to leave as she has unfinished business with Manjulika. Anjulika enters the room and tortures the real Manjulika to death. The Thakur family leaves, and the mansion becomes abandoned once again.

