Madison is a social media influencer who has been using her vacation in Thailand as a way to promote herself and several advertisers online. While the posts give off the impression of a glamorous, exciting time, the reality is that Madison spends most of her time in her luxury hotel eating Western food and upset that her boyfriend Ryan did not come with her. 

During the vacation Madison is befriended by CW, who takes her on a tour of local hotspots. They return to find that someone had broken into Madison's hotel room and stolen her passport. CW suggests that Madison extend her vacation while waiting for a replacement. She agrees and the following day CW takes Madison to a deserted island, where she abandons the influencer. CW then returns so that she can enjoy living Madison's lifestyle, with Madison's passport, going so far as to fake a social media post claiming that Madison is taking a sabbatical from influencing. This enjoyment is short lived, as CW quickly becomes dissatisfied. She then decides to approach another vacationing influencer, Jessica, hoping to find more excitement. CW similarly breaks into Jessica's room in order to steal her belongings. The two women later travel back to Madison's room. They discover Ryan waiting for Madison, as he had been hoping to surprise her with a proposal. CW lies and says that Madison allowed her to stay, something that neither Ryan nor Jessica fully believe. 

The following day Jessica becomes increasingly more suspicious and confronts CW, who beats the woman to death. CW then proceeds to trick Ryan into believing that Madison broke up with him and began sleeping with other men. These lies are quickly disproven and Ryan discovers that CW abducted Madison and was behind the sabbatical post on social media. He tries to force CW to take him to Madison, only for the woman to murder him and post lies about him online using Madison's account. CW then returns to the island to dump the bodies, in the process discovering that Madison is still alive. Madison manages to overcome CW while she is searching for the influencer and steals the boat, which she rides back to civilization. The film ends with CW watching the influencer ride off with a smile.

