In January 2007, Estonian psychiatric patient Leena Klammer, a 31-year-old woman with a rare hormonal disorder called hypopituitarism that gives her the appearance of a 9-year-old child, orchestrates an escape from the Saarne {{Not a typo|Institute}} by seducing and killing a guard and hiding in the car of an art therapist named Anna. After breaking into Anna's house and killing her, Leena looks up missing American girls and finds that she bears a striking resemblance to Esther Albright, a girl from a rich family who went missing in 2003. Later, posing as a lost girl, Leena is approached by a Russian police officer and introduces herself as "Esther", claiming that her parents are in the United States.

In Darien, Connecticut, wealthy artist Allen Albright and his wife Tricia, who has since come to terms with the disappearance of their daughter, are informed by Detective Donnan that "Esther" has been found. Tricia travels to the U.S. embassy in Moscow where she is "reunited" with Esther. Tricia brings Esther home and immediately starts to have doubts when she notices that Esther has forgotten about the death of her grandmother or that her painting skills have increased enormously compared to before she disappeared. Leena falls in love with Allen after they both start bonding over their painting skills, and tries to separate him from Tricia.

While Tricia and Allen attend a charity gala hosted by Tricia, Donnan arrives at the house and steals a vinyl record from Esther's room which has Leena's fingerprints on it. He takes it back to his house, unaware that Leena has followed him, and analyzes the fingerprints to find it is not a match. Leena attacks Donnan and stabs him with a knife repeatedly, before Tricia arrives, having followed Leena. Instead of stopping Leena, Tricia opens fire on Donnan with a gun and kills him. Tricia reveals that she knows Leena is not Esther, who died four years earlier during an altercation with her older brother Gunnar, which Tricia covered up without Allen's knowledge. Tricia explains that she is only welcoming Leena to make Allen happy again and that if she refuses to cooperate, she would report her to the authorities for "murdering" Donnan. Leena reveals her true identity to Tricia, and the two then dispose of Donnan's body in a cellar hatch where the real Esther is buried and frame his disappearance as a vacation trip by forging an email to the police station.

Tricia eventually terminates the deal but realizing that it would be too suspicious if "Esther" were to disappear again, Tricia and Gunnar pretend that Leena is still "Esther" in Allen's presence. Later, Tricia tries to poison Leena during dinner but Leena retaliates by feeding Tricia with a dead rat smoothie. She also attempts to push Tricia and Gunnar onto the railway tracks but is stopped by an incoming passenger. With Allen away at an art gallery exhibition, Leena tries fleeing by stealing Tricia's car, but she is soon found by a police officer.

That night, Leena is brought back to the Albright house and Tricia and Gunnar finally decide to kill Leena for good. Tricia tries to stage a suicide, but Leena fights back and flees before Gunnar throws her down the stairs. Distracted by a phone call from Allen, who is returning home, Tricia and Gunnar search for Leena when she disappears. Gunnar eventually finds Leena in the art room but Leena shoots Gunnar with a crossbow and then stabs him to death with his fencing sword. An enraged Tricia and Leena fight in the kitchen, inadvertently setting the house alight in the process, and the pair flee to the roof as Allen returns home.

Tricia and Leena both slip and end up clinging to the roof, begging Allen to save them, with Leena claiming Tricia attacked her, and Tricia trying to reveal the truth about Leena. Unable to save both of them, Allen chooses to help "Esther", causing Tricia to lose her grip and fall to her death. Allen then checks Leena's face, which causes her fake teeth to fall out. Realizing she is not Esther, Leena tries to defend herself by saying she did it for them and also confesses her love for him. Allen calls her a monster, causing an enraged Leena to accidentally push him off the roof. Leena then again dresses herself as Esther and leaves the burning house after cleaning off the blood on her face.

Later, "Esther" is moved to an orphanage where she waits for a new family to adopt her.

