In 1995, four-year-old Kevin injures himself in what his six-year-old sister Kaylee says is a sleepwalking episode. Kevin is taken to a hospital and brought back home. The siblings wake up in the middle of the night to find that their father has disappeared and the windows, doors, and other objects in their house are gradually vanishing.

Kevin suggests they sleep downstairs, where they watch cartoons on TV. They awaken to find the house still dark, hear an unexplained thumping noise and find a chair standing upside-down on the ceiling. Kevin then suggests that their dad "went with mom" but Kaylee does not want to talk about their mother. 

The toilet in the downstairs bathroom disappears. On their way to the upstairs bathroom, Kaylee sees a doll on a bedroom ceiling, and Kevin ends up too frightened to use the toilet. They decide to place two buckets in the downstairs bathroom. A mysterious voice calls to Kaylee from the darkness, telling her to come upstairs.

Upstairs, Kaylee sees their father in a bedroom. He tells her to look under the bed but she does not see anything. She then sees their mother sitting on the bed. Her mother says they love her and Kevin, and instructs her to close her eyes before vanishing. Kaylee looks at the open closet and hears her mother say "There's someone here." From the closet she hears her mother calling her name as well as moans of pain and bones breaking.

Kaylee returns downstairs and has Kevin help her push the couch to block off the hallway from which the voice was calling her. When Kevin falls asleep, the voice calls Kaylee again. When Kevin wakes up, Kaylee is gone. Toys and objects are suspended against a wall. The voice calls to Kevin, beckoning him into the basement, where he sees Kaylee, who no longer has eyes or a mouth. The mysterious voice tells him it wants to play, as some of the toys begin to disappear. A drawer opens in the kitchen, and Kevin complies with the voice's command that he insert a knife into one of his eyes.

Kevin calls 9-1-1. He whispers to the operator that he was cut with a knife and feels sick. The operator tells him to stay on the line, and adults will be on their way. Kevin says that the doors have disappeared before dropping the phone.

The phone turns into a Chatter Telephone toy and the voice claims responsibility for it doing so, telling Kevin that it can "do anything." It says that Kaylee did not do as it told her; she said she wanted her parents, so it took away her mouth. It tells Kevin to come upstairs, and he obeys. Holding a flashlight, he finds himself on the ceiling. He walks into a bedroom which becomes a void.

A dollhouse is shown sitting on a pile of toys, in a seemingly infinite hallway as text on the screen reads "572 days". A female figure is seen sitting on the bed and her head slowly fades away, followed by the rest of her body. Photos are shown of people, except their faces are either missing or distorted. Kevin cries out as blood splatters onto the floor, then disappears and spatters repeatedly. He asks if he can watch something happy. An unidentifiable face appears over him in his bed, telling him to go to sleep. Kevin asks for the face's name twice, but it does not respond either time.

