At a crowded house party in Adelaide, Cole searches for his brother Duckett. When he finds Duckett and attempts to bring him home, Duckett stabs him in the shoulder before fatally stabbing himself in the face.

Some time later, 17-year-old Mia is struggling with the second anniversary of her mother Rhea's suicide by overdose and her distant relationship with her father Max. Driving at night, Mia comes across a fatally injured kangaroo, but cannot bring herself to perform a mercy kill. Mia, her best friend Jade, and Jade's little brother Riley sneak out to one of many gatherings hosted by Hayley and Joss, where the main attraction is a severed and embalmed hand of mysterious origin. Holding the hand in a handshake position and saying "talk to me" enables someone to communicate with a deceased person's spirit, followed by saying "I let you in" to allow the spirit to possess them. In order to prevent spirits from binding themselves to that person, someone else must end the possession before 90 seconds by pulling away the embalmed hand and blowing out a candle to cut the connection. Mia volunteers to go first and is possessed by a spirit that displays a menacing focus on Riley. Joss and Hayley struggle to break the connection, only managing to do so after the time limit has been slightly exceeded.

Ecstatic over the feeling the hand brought her, Mia joins Hayley, Joss, and Jade's boyfriend Daniel at Jade's house the next night. Jade refuses to let Riley participate, but all of the others indulge, enjoying the euphoria of possession. When Jade leaves the room, Mia gives in to Riley's pleas and tells Joss and Hayley to let him take a turn as long as the possession ends before 50 seconds instead of the usual 90. Riley appears to be possessed by the spirit of Rhea, who attempts to reconcile with Mia. Stunned, Mia stops the group from ending the possession to keep talking to her mother, disregarding the time limit. Riley's body is overtaken by the spirits and they make him attempt suicide by smashing his face against the table, cupboard, and window, as well as forcing him to attempt to pull out one of his own eyes; he is hospitalized in critical condition.

Mia, now haunted by visions of Rhea, is blamed for Riley's injuries and shunned by Jade and her mother Sue. Having secretly taken the embalmed hand, Mia offers Daniel a place to stay for the night at her father's house. Whilst platonically sharing a bed with Daniel, she witnesses a spirit crawl from the corner of the room and suck on Daniel's feet. When he wakes up, he instead sees Mia sucking his feet in a trance and leaves. Mia repeatedly uses the hand to contact Rhea, who insists that her death was accidental and that she needs to help Riley, who is still possessed and attempts suicide every time he returns to consciousness. Mia leaves the connection open and begins seeing her mother without the hand, causing her to lose her grasp on reality.

The friends track down Cole, who explains that a living body naturally expels invading spirits. Mia, fearing that Riley may not have time, attempts to contact him in the hospital by using the hand but is instead shown a vision of Riley being tortured by spirits in limbo. At home, Max reads Rhea's suicide note to Mia and apologizes for hiding the truth from her. Rhea's spirit tells Mia that Max is lying, and Mia hallucinates that she is being violently attacked by Max, causing her to inadvertently stab the real Max in the neck with a pair of scissors.

After being told by Rhea that Riley needs to die in order to be set free from his possession, and hallucinating the injured kangaroo she earlier failed to euthanize, Mia kidnaps Riley from the hospital with the intention of putting him out of his misery. Jade sees Mia pushing Riley in a wheelchair toward the highway. Rhea attempts to convince Mia to push Riley into oncoming traffic, but when she tells Mia that the spirits will "have him forever", Mia realizes that Rhea has actually been the malevolent spirit from her initial possession manipulating her all along. She steps away from the wheelchair; as Jade rushes toward them to save her brother, Mia instead falls into the oncoming traffic and lies badly injured on the road.

Mia finds herself in the hospital, where she sees a fully recovered Riley talking to Jade and Sue while Max leaves in an elevator going up. Nobody responds to her and she notices that she has no reflection in the mirror and her hands are disfigured. After becoming engulfed in darkness, she sees a hand extended over a candle in the distance. She grabs it and is suddenly summoned to a house party in Greece,<ref name="Greek">Though it is never explicitly stated that the party is in Greece, the actors in the scene are credited as "Stranger in Greece", "Young Man in Greece", and "Men in Greece".</ref> where a partygoer holding her hand is urged to speak before swapping to English and telling Mia, "I let you in."

