At a Northern Illinois University fraternity's New Year's Eve party, a reluctant Alana Maxwell is coerced into participating in a prank: she lures the shy and awkward pledge Kenny Hampson into a room on the promise of a sexual liaison, where the medical students have placed a woman's corpse (stolen from the medical school) in bed. Kenny is traumatized by the prank and sent to a psychiatric hospital.

Three years later, the members of the same fraternities and sororities hold a New Year's Eve costume party aboard a train. They include class clown Ed, prank ringleader Doc; Jackson; Mitchy, Alana's best friend; and Alana's boyfriend Mo. Also aboard is a magician and his female assistant, hired to entertain the students.

Ed is murdered prior to boarding and the killer dons Ed's Groucho Marx mask, allowing him to board unnoticed. As the train journeys into the wilderness, the killer wanders amongst the students, who believe him to be Ed. In the sleeper bathroom, he murders Jackson. Train conductor Carne finds Jackson's body, still wearing his lizard costume. When Carne returns to the scene with brakeman Charlie, the killer has hidden Jackson's body and is now posing in the lizard costume; Charlie and Carne believe him to simply be drunk.

The killer kills Mitchy in the compartment; Carne finds her corpse. During a magic show, Doc finds Mo dead. Carne and Charlie discover two of the crew members dead. They sequester the students into one car while the pullman porters find the corpse of another student.

Suspecting Kenny, Alana recounts to Doc her attempt to visit Kenny at the hospital, where she learned that he is disturbed and may have been involved in a murder. Doc seals himself in the sleeper car but is decapitated. Alana believes the magician may be Kenny in disguise.

The masked killer pursues her through the train. After finding the magician's dead body in his sword box, she realizes her theory was wrong and runs to inform Carne and Charlie. She instead finds Kenny, who is indeed the killer, dressed in Charlie's uniform after having killed him. Kenny reveals a blonde wig, and she realizes he has been posing in drag as the magician's female assistant the entire time.

Alana apologizes about the prank, but he refuses to accept it and forces her to kiss him. The kiss causes Kenny to relive his trauma from the prank and suffer a mental breakdown. Carne beats Kenny with a shovel, causing him to fall out the open door to his death. His body lands in an icy river as the train roars off.

