After being resurrected by an unknown entity following the Miles County Massacre, Art the Clown brutally murders the coroner investigating his body with a hammer. He goes to the laundromat to clean his blood-soaked garments where he encounters The Little Pale Girl—a mysterious sinister entity in similar clown attire. A lone patron sees Art interacting with the girl, who is invisible to him, before being killed by Art.

A year later, teenager Sienna Shaw is putting the finishing touches on her Halloween costume: an angel-warrior that was made by her father, who recently died of a brain tumor. Sienna's younger brother Jonathan wants to dress as Art for Halloween and has become fixated with him since discovering sketches of him and his victims from the Miles County Massacre in their father's sketchbook. That night, Sienna has a nightmare where she encounters Art, and awakens to a fire on her dresser, which destroys the wings that were needed for her costume, while a sword that was a gift to her from her father remains unscathed.

On Halloween, Jonathan sees Art and The Little Pale Girl at school playing with a dead opossum. Sienna has a panic attack when her friends Allie and Brooke discuss Victoria Heyes's meltdown and mutilation of controversial talk show host Monica Brown. Sienna and Allie go to the costume shop to buy a replacement pair of wings, where they encounter Art. Art kills the shop vendor and later breaks into Allie's home, where he brutally maims her. Allie’s mother is killed when she discovers her daughter’s still-breathing body.

Jonathan shows Sienna and their mother, Barbara, his father's sketchbook of Art, filled with newspaper clippings of killings connected to him, revealing that The Little Pale Girl bears the appearance of his first victim named Emily Crane, the daughter of a circus performer whose body was discovered in a makeup trailer. Jonathan believes their father knew how to stop Art, but they do not believe him. After Barbara tears up the sketchbook and hits Jonathan, he runs away. Barbara then finds her car vandalized and while cleaning it she is killed by Art. When Jonathan returns home, he finds his mother's corpse and Art chases after him before drugging and kidnapping him, stealing Sienna's sword in the process.

At a Halloween party, Brooke spikes Sienna's drink with MDMA in an attempt to calm her, but she has a panic attack when she sees The Little Pale Girl. Brooke and her boyfriend, Jeff, drive Sienna home, but the Little Pale Girl impersonates Jonathan over the phone and lures Sienna to The Terrifiers haunted attraction at a defunct carnival where Art killed her years before. Art emasculates and then kills Jeff, and then chases Brooke into the haunted attraction before cornering and killing her. 

Sienna discovers Brooke's corpse and fights Art until he knocks her unconscious. She awakens to find Art using a scalpel on her brother, overpowers Art, and begins attacking him with his own weapons. After Art is killed several times by Sienna and Jonathan, he continuously manages to resurrect. He kills Sienna with her father's sword and throws her into a water torture cell. As Art attempts to eat Jonathan, Sienna is mysteriously resurrected by the sword before she decapitates Art, and rescues Jonathan. The Little Pale Girl takes Art's head and leaves without attacking Sienna and Jonathan. 

In a mid-credits scene, an institutionalized Victoria is throwing up before writing "Vicky + Art" and obscenities on the wall with her blood. She gives birth to Art's living head, leaving a horrified nurse screaming.

