Morgan and Shawn arrive to a cabin in the woods where they plan on celebrating Juneteenth with their group of friends. In the basement, the couple discovers a board game called "The Blackening", which features a racist Little Black Sambo charicature. 

Suddenly, the lights go out and a mysterious voice demands the couple to play. Shawn answers a question incorrectly and is promptly killed with an arrow to the neck. Morgan attempts to escape but is captured.

The next day, Lisa, Allison, and Dewayne make their way to the cabin and discuss King bringing Lisa's unfaithful ex-boyfriend Nnamdi for the weekend's festivities. On her way to the cabin, Shanika runs into a former schoolmate named Clifton at the gas station, who reveals he is also joining the group. 

Before leaving, Shanika is unnerved by the facially disfigured clerk  who stands by her menacingly. Once the group is all together, they find Ranger White not allowing them entry. After settling the dispute, the friends begin to set up for a night of partying.

After drinks, drugs, and games ensue, the group questions who specifically invited Clifton. After the lights go out again, the friends go to find a power box, only to come across The Blackening with game pieces correlating to their personalities. The voice speaks to them, revealing that he is keeping Morgan prisoner. 

The voice forces the friends to play the game to save Morgan and begins by asking trivia questions about African-American culture. Unfortunately, the friends fail to sufficiently answer a question about all the black actors that guest-starred on ''Friends'' and Morgan is attacked.

They are ordered to sacrifice one of their own based on whom they deem to be "the blackest"; the least black person will be sacrificed. Each of them comes up with their own defense, but everyone ends up choosing Clifton after he admits he voted for Donald Trump in both elections. 

Clifton goes outside and is shot in the chest with an arrow by the killer. When the friends are freed from the room, they attempt to go look for Morgan and find help. Despite knowing better, they agree with Allison's idea to split up. 

She goes off with King and Shanika while Dewayne has to go with Lisa and Nnamdi. The latter three end up running into Ranger White, who is willing to help them until the killer shoots him in the neck with an arrow.

Allison, King, and Shanika encounter the killer, and the trio manage to overpower and kill him. They unmask him to find that it's the clerk that Shanika saw at the gas station. Lisa, Nnamdi, and Dewayne then encounter a second killer before Lisa bashes his brains in. They look through his pockets to see that he is the first killer's twin brother, and they deduce someone hired them to be there.

The friends go into another room where they find Ranger White's and Clifton's bodies, only for the latter to spring awake and reveal himself as the mastermind. He blames the group for always doubting his level of "blackness" when they knew each other at college, with this doubt leading to an incident where he drank heavily and ended up killing a woman when driving on the road. 

After serving four years in prison for the DUI, he organized the entire night as revenge and prepares to kill the others before dropping them down a well where he dumped Shawn's and Morgan's corpses. The friends fight back before kicking him down the well to his apparent death.

As the morning arrives, the friends are skeptical of calling the police for help. On the advice of Dewayne, they call the fire department instead, only for them to be sprayed with a hose.

