In 1939, Stan Carlisle hides a corpse under the floorboards of a run-down house before setting the house ablaze. That evening he walks into a traveling carnival and watches a geek show in which a deranged man eats a live chicken. While leaving the show, he runs into the carnival's strongman Bruno and is offered a temporary job for the night. He is subsequently convinced by carnival owner Clem to take a permanent position and begins working with "Madame Zeena", the carnival's clairvoyant act, and her alcoholic husband Pete.

Stan becomes attracted to fellow performer Molly and asks her to leave the carnival with him, but she refuses. Madame Zeena and Pete teach Stan how to use the coded language and cold reading tricks they use in their act, while warning him against pretending to speak to the dead. Stan also learns that Clem hires troubled alcoholics to be his "geeks," then gives them opium-laced alcohol so that they stay. One night, Pete asks Stan for alcohol. The next morning, Pete is found dead. 

Local law enforcement raid the carnival after being tipped off about the geek show. Stan saves the carnival with his cold reading skills, placating the local sheriff and manipulating him into showing leniency. Shortly thereafter, Molly agrees to leave the carnival with Stan.

Two years later, Stan has successfully reinvented himself with a psychic act for the wealthy elite of Buffalo, with Molly as his assistant. Their relationship has deteriorated as Stan demands perfection from Molly during their act. During a performance, they are interrupted by psychologist Dr. Lilith Ritter, who attempts to expose their tricks. Stan bests and humiliates Ritter with his cold reading skills, then cold reads the man also sitting at Ritter's table, Judge Kimball. After the show, the judge offers to pay Stan for a private consultation to help him and his wife communicate with their dead son. Despite Molly's objections, Stan agrees.

Stan meets with Ritter to request information on Kimball, offering money in exchange. Ritter instead requests Stan sit for a psychotherapy session, where she learns Stan may have killed Pete. That night, Madame Zeena, Bruno and the Major make an impromptu visit, when Madame Zeena claims to know from the cards that Stan is about to do a "spook show" and warns him not to.

Armed with Ritter's information, Stan performs a successful reading for Kimball and his wife. He offers to split the profits with Ritter but she refuses, agreeing to keep the money in her care to hide it from Molly. Stan informs Ritter that Kimball has offered to introduce him to Ezra Grindle, a very wealthy former patient of Ritter's. She feeds Stan information about Grindle's past, namely how he forced an abortion on a young woman named Dorrie. Stan and Ritter begin a romantic relationship, and he begins drinking.

Stan continues to hold sessions with Grindle, who demands that Stan make Dorrie's spirit materialize in a séance. Stan agrees and plans to have Molly pose as Dorrie from afar. Molly initially refuses but relents with the promise of being able to leave Stan if she cooperates. On the day Stan plans to materialize Dorrie, Kimball's wife murders her husband and commits suicide to be reunited with their son. That night, Grindle realizes Stan is scamming him when Molly's disguise fails upon close inspection. After Grindle threatens Stan and strikes Molly, Stan beats Grindle to death and runs over Grindle's bodyguard with his car. Horrified, Molly leaves.

Stan arrives at Ritter's office to obtain his money, but she betrays him and withholds almost all of his savings. He attacks her but is forced to escape when security arrives. A flashback reveals he killed his bedridden father by intentionally exposing him to hypothermia before burning his house down.

As he descends into alcoholism while traveling the hobo circuit, Stan sees ads touting Madame Zeena. Stan finds a new carnival and learns from the owner that his old carnival went out of business. Realizing he is not going to find Madame Zeena or Molly, Stan desperately pitches his mentalist act to the carnival owner, who rejects it based on his unkempt appearance and the act being out of fashion. The owner then offers him a drink and temporary work as a geek. Stan accepts the offer, tearfully telling the owner that he was "born for it" before breaking down laughing.

