While the plot of the film is portrayed in three separate chapters, each telling the same story from the perspective of the three main characters, the following description summarizes all three presentations into a single narrative:

After serving in the Caroline War, French squires Jean de Carrouges (Matt Damon) and Jacques Le Gris (Adam Driver) swear allegiance to Count Pierre d'Alençon (Ben Affleck), who has been named Jean's overlord by King Charles VI (Alex Lawther). Jacques later tells Jean that Pierre has tasked him with collecting war levies, agreeing to ask for leniency on Jean's behalf when his brother-in-arms explains he lacks the funds.

To restore his finances, Jean (who lost his first wife and son of plague) marries Marguerite de Thibouville (Jodie Comer) on the promise of a large dowry from Marguerite's father, Robert, that grants the rights to many valuable estates. Pierre, however, seizes the prized estate of Aunou-le-Faucon to settle Robert's back taxes and gifts it to Jacques, who has earned a court position by using his mathematical knowledge to untangle Pierre's finances. Jean takes the matter before King Charles, who dismisses the suit. Pierre retaliates by appointing Jacques to the captaincy of a Carrouges family post following the death of Jean's father.

Jean's marriage becomes strained due to the couple's failure to conceive. He and Jacques reconcile at a celebration, where Jacques becomes smitten with Marguerite after she befriends him in an attempt to win favor. Jacques misinterprets this as a reciprocation of his affections, coming to believe she actually does not love Jean.

Following his participation in a failed military campaign in Scotland that sees him knighted for his efforts but still bankrupt, Jean sets off for Paris to collect his wage. Marguerite demonstrates a talent for managing the estate in his absence. Collecting taxes from her peasants, she learns Jean regularly forgives the poorest from their obligations.

One day, Jean's mother takes all the servants to attend to legal business, leaving Marguerite alone. Jacques later visits and tricks his way into the chateau, haughtily proclaiming his love. When he ignores Marguerite's orders to leave, she attempts to flee from his advances, only for him to chase her to her room, and despite her protests, he rapes her before ordering her not to tell her husband.

Upon Jean's return, Marguerite tells him what happened; after questioning whether she is telling the truth, Jean becomes convinced that Jacques raped Marguerite to insult him specifically. Jean insists that Marguerite immediately have sex with him so that Jacques will not be "the last man that knew her."

Pierre informs Jacques that Jean is accusing him of raping Marguerite, which he denies. Despite the count's attempt to exert his authority, Jean appeals his case directly to King Charles and requests a duel to the death. Jacques accepts, having decided not to seek a favorable forum of a Catholic ecclesiastical court with clerical judges. Marguerite's friends abandon her, believing her to be lying to cover up an affair, while Jean's mother insists Marguerite drop her accusations and accept any consequences (while also implying Jean's conception may have also been unconsensual).

At Jacques' trial six months later, a now-pregnant Marguerite remains resolute that she is telling the truth, while the court implies that Jacques is the father of her child. Charles grants Jean's request for a duel to the death to determine the case. Marguerite is also informed that she will be burned alive for perjury if her husband loses, and confronts Jean for not telling her about this. Marguerite gives birth to her son not long before the duel takes place.

The duel begins with Jean and Jacques jousting until both men lose their mounts and fight hand-to-hand. Following a lengthy struggle, Jean is stabbed in the groin but eventually manages to pin down Jacques. He demands that Jacques confess or face damnation, but Jacques claims his innocence. Jean then kills him. Jean basks in the glory of his victory while Marguerite follows quietly behind. Meanwhile, Jacques' body is stripped, and hung upside down publicly.

thumb|A historic depiction of the duel (1480)

A textual epilogue reveals Jean died fighting in the Crusades while Marguerite continued managing his estate, living in peace for the remainder of her life but never remarrying. Her child is shown to have blonde hair, signifying that he is the child of Jean.

