A highly contagious, aggression-inducing virus called the "rage virus" is unleashed in Great Britain after an infected chimpanzee is freed from its cage in a laboratory in Cambridge by a group of eco-terrorists. Within seconds of exposure after freeing the enraged chimp, one of the terrorists succumbs to the virus and immediately infects another. Over the following hours and days, it spreads rapidly and becomes an epidemic, resulting in total societal collapse.

Twenty-eight days after the initial outbreak, bicycle courier Jim, who had an accident and fell into a coma prior to the outbreak, awakens in St Thomas' Hospital in London, which has been completely deserted with visible signs of catastrophe. After wandering the streets of London and entering a church, Jim is chased by infected humans before being rescued by survivors Selena and Mark, who take Jim to their place of refuge in a streetside store. At Jim's request, the group travels by foot to his parents' house in Deptford, where he learns that they died by suicide, leaving him a note. Shortly thereafter, Mark gets a cut on his arm which is exposed to infected blood during an attack, prompting Selena to immediately kill him before he can turn.

Jim and Selena encounter cab driver Frank and his daughter Hannah at Balfron Tower, from whom they learn of a military broadcast offering protection at a blockade in Manchester. With supplies dwindling, Frank asks Jim and Selena to accompany him and Hannah to the blockade, which they accept. The group travels to Manchester in Frank's cab, but upon arriving, they find the blockade deserted. As the group struggles to plot their next move, Frank is infected when a drop of blood falls into his eye. The soldiers arrive shortly afterwards and shoot Frank dead.

The remaining survivors are brought to a fortified mansion under the command of Major Henry West. However, the safety promised by the soldiers turns out to be a ruse when West reveals to Jim that the broadcast was intended to lure female survivors into sexual slavery to repopulate the world, as West is convinced the Rage virus has overrun the entire planet. Major West has Jim and Sergeant Farrell taken out to be shot after they refuse to go along with his plan, but Jim escapes after Farrell creates a distraction. While hiding in a pile of bodies, Jim sees a jet contrail in the sky, showing proof of outside survivors for the first time. After luring West away from the mansion, Jim releases Private Mailer, an infected soldier kept chained for observations, resulting in the death or infection of all of West's men. Jim, Selena, and Hannah attempt to leave in Frank's cab, but West, who had sneaked into the back seat, shoots Jim. Hannah retaliates by putting the cab in reverse, allowing Mailer to pull West through the rear window and kill him, while the three survivors drive off.

Another 28 days later, Jim recovers at a remote cottage in Cumbria, where the infected are shown lying openly in the roads, emaciated and dying of starvation. As a Finnish fighter jet flies overhead, Jim, Selena, and Hannah unfurl a huge cloth banner spelling the word "HELLO". The three survivors optimistically watch the jet as the pilot spots them.

