Three estranged, middle-aged friends—Adam Yates, a workaholic who was dumped by his girlfriend; neglected husband Nick Webber-Agnew, who works a dead-end job; and Lou Dorchen, an alcoholic slacker—reconnect in 2010 when Lou is hospitalized with carbon monoxide poisoning.

Although Lou denies that he attempted suicide, Adam and Nick arrange for him to join them and Adam's slacker nephew Jacob at Kodiak Valley Ski Resort, where the three enjoyed themselves in their youth. When they arrive, they find that the town is not what it used to be, with many of the stores boarded up and the hotel run down.

While drinking in their hotel room's hot tub, the four accidentally douse the console with an energy drink. The next day, they go skiing, and after many strange occurrences, realize they have traveled back to 1986. Adam, Lou, and Nick have also assumed their younger bodies, although Jacob's appearance has not changed since he was not born yet, though he occasionally flickers.

A cryptic repairman appears and warns them not to change anything, as it might affect history. To minimize the butterfly effect, the group plans to re-enact their experiences: Adam has to break up with his girlfriend Jenny and get stabbed in the eye with a fork; Lou must pick a fight with and get beaten up by Blaine, a ski patrol bully; Nick must have sex with a groupie and perform with his band at an open microphone event. They also find Adam's sister—and Jacob's mother—Kelly at the resort.

The three find their tasks difficult; Lou gets punched by Blaine and loses his backpack, but realizes he must face him again later at night, so he reluctantly challenges him again. Adam becomes attracted to Jenny again and loses the will to break up, but is distracted when he meets free-spirited music journalist April during a concert. Nick is concerned about cheating on his wife, even though he has not married yet at the time.

Jenny turns the tables on Adam when she initiates their breakup, but he still gets stabbed in the eye with a fork after he tries to prevent it. He wanders around the resort alone before encountering April, they break into a home and become intimate. Meanwhile, Nick covers more upbeat music during his performance. When the repairman tells Jacob a chemical is the key to their time travel, Jacob realizes it was the energy drink they spilled.

After the group prevents Lou from falling off the rooftop, they go to Blaine's cabin to search for the drink. Lou seduces Kelly but, when Jacob interrupts them having sex, he suddenly vanishes. They realize that Lou is Jacob's father as he reappears after Lou and Kelly finish conceiving him. Leaving Kelly, Lou finally beats Blaine, and the four retrieve the energy drink and return to the hot tub where they create a vortex.

Jacob and Nick enter the tub first, but Lou decides to stay in 1986, admitting to Adam that his carbon monoxide poisoning was in fact a suicide attempt. Knowing the future, he intends to make investments and have a closer relationship with Jacob. Adam wants to stay too, but Lou throws him into the vortex at the last moment.

Back in 2010, Adam, Nick, and Jacob discover that Lou has changed history by founding the immensely successful Lougle, which affords him a luxurious life with Kelly. Adam discovers that he is happily married to April, while Nick is a successful music producer married to a loving and supportive wife. They reunite at Lou's mansion with their families, satisfied with their new lives.

