Weeks after the events that led to Lex Luthor's arrest, the impeachment of his presidency, and Superman and Batman's success in saving the world from a kryptonite meteor, a spaceship crash-lands in Gotham City Harbor. While Batman investigates the sunken craft, a young girl emerges from the water and accidentally wrecks Batman's boat. As she progresses into the city, she inadvertently wreaks havoc with her strong Kryptonian powers until Superman arrives to correct the damage, allowing Batman to eventually expose her to Kryptonite which weakens and injures her mentally.

With Superman's help, they discover the girl is Kara Zor-El, the niece of the late Jor-El and Lara, making her Superman's cousin. However, she is physically younger than him due to having been in suspended animation for decades. While Superman welcomes Kara, teaches her English, and helps her adjust to Earth society, Batman remains suspicious, even considering the possibility of Kara being an enemy. Tipped off by Batman, Wonder Woman and Lyla ambush Kara and Clark Kent, Superman's alter ego, in a park and suggest they train Kara at Themyscira. Superman reluctantly agrees, but Batman and Wonder Woman advise Superman to steer clear of Kara, criticizing his care of her.

On the desolate planet Apokolips, Darkseid learns of Kara's presence on Earth and orders Granny Goodness to have her brought to Apokolips as a possible leader for the Female Furies. Two months later, Batman and Superman are checking on Kara on Themyscira during a sparring match against Artemis. When Kara and Lyla sneak away for a swim, a horde of Doomsday clones arrives from Apokolips. Superman, Batman, Wonder Woman, and the Amazons fight them until Superman vaporizes them with his heat vision. Batman, however, discovers Kara missing and Lyla dead, with Darkseid ordering the attack as a diversion to allow time for Granny to kidnap Kara. On Apokolips, she is brainwashed by Darkseid, becoming the cold-hearted and bloodthirsty captain of his honor guard.

Batman, Superman and Wonder Woman ask Big Barda to help them to Apokolips and despite initially refusing, she agrees. There, Superman infiltrates Darkseid's palace while Wonder Woman and Barda go directly into the fighting arena, fighting Granny Goodness and the Female Furies. After a hard fight with Barda killing Stompa to save Wonder Woman, Granny and the other Furies are subdued. Separating himself from the others, Batman finds Darkseid's supply of Hell Spores, the source of the fire pits on Apokolips. Superman encounters Darkseid and discovers the brainwashed Kara. When he tries to bring her back to Earth, Kara refuses to go with him and upon attacking him, Darkseid orders her to kill Superman. Darkseid watches them fight until Batman confronts Darkseid and informs him that he has activated the Hell Spores, which will destroy Apokolips. He issues Darkseid an ultimatum: free Kara and promise to leave her alone, and Batman will deactivate the Spores. Superman defeats Kara, and Barda and Wonder Woman present Darkseid with the subdued Granny, whereupon Darkseid finally releases Kara, and the heroes leave Apokolips, bringing Kara back to Themyscira.

Back on Earth, with their lives apparently normal again, Clark takes Kara to meet his adoptive parents in Smallville, but they are ambushed by Darkseid, who overwhelms Superman and launches him into space. Kara engages Darkseid in a lengthy battle and manages to hold her own, but he eventually gains the upper hand and knocks her unconscious. Before Darkseid can leave, Superman returns to Earth and reengages him, but Darkseid still does not relent and again overwhelms Superman with his Omega Beams. Kara recovers and uses Darkseid's Mother Box to send him into space. While Superman anticipates Darkseid's eventual return, Kara informs him that she changed the coordinates, leaving him frozen in space.

Having saved her cousin's life and found her place on Earth, Kara decides to use her powers to fight for altruism; under the alias of Supergirl, and she is met with applause by Wonder Woman, the Amazons, and finally Batman. Superman and Supergirl fly to Metropolis together.

