Dr. Albert Lewis is a widowed astrophysicist living in Kerala with his 8-year-old son Adam. He is emotionally distant with his son whom he silently believes to be the reason he lost his beloved wife Annie who died in childbirth. His only other kin Annie's brother is hostile with Albert and Adam as he feels Adam is evil and is the cause of a freak accident that rendered his son paralysed while he and Adam were playing on terrace. Adam is shown to be a gloomy but seemingly perceptive boy. He is shown to have run into trouble with  authorities several times and Albert is irked by this too.

A comet from an unknown galaxy is projected to pass beside Earth which will cause a huge electromagnetic pulse (EMP) surge and is predicted to be lasting nine days, during which time none of the modern inventions including electricity, phone, engine-run vehicles will work anywhere in the world. Several days before this phenomenon, Albert's mentor Dr. Inayat Khan visits him at his house and asks him to conduct research about the comet and sends him to a place in the Indian Himalayas, from where the closest citing of the comet is expected. Inayat also says to Albert that this incident is long portrayed by the locals over there and their caves have drawing of the comet with its earlier and future occurrences. Albert, with his colleagues and son, goes to the Himalayas for the research and Albert and Adam opts to stay at an old bungalow owned by Dr.Inayat with Hakka, an old janitor from the local tribe to assist them. Then the story progresses with the appearance of another character named Ava. Adam has bad feelings about Ava, as she tries to trap him. Adam informs this to Albert, but his father doesn't take it right. One time, Adam and Hakka were talking, Ava takes Adam, and haunts him on telling about her to Albert, Hakka on seeing this is injured by Ava. Adam and Albert leave the house. Albert is attacked by Ava and Adam is taken. Albert wakes at Dr. Inayat's where he tells him that Ava is actually Albert and that he has bipolar schizoaffective disorder which explains why Adam was frightened by him in a few scene and tells him he has one day to see Adam alive or else, the police are involved. Adam is found, and Ava leaves as the last night goes, happily leaving the father-son duo. Then, Albert asks Adam who Eva is, causing Adam to gasp, hinting at Ava's existence.
The mid credits scene shows a cave with a painting on its walls, showing a cosmic creature with a female-like appearance tormenting people, indicating that Ava is real.

