In the late 21st century, mysterious power surges threaten to destabilize human civilization. Major Roy McBride is informed that the surges have been traced to the "Lima Project", a space station in orbit around Neptune, sent twenty-nine years earlier to search for intelligent life. Roy's father, H. Clifford McBride, was the project's leader. Roy agrees to travel to Mars in an effort to determine whether the station's crew are still alive.

En route to the SpaceCom base on the Moon's far side, a band of scavenger pirates ambush Roy and his colleague Pruitt, but they manage to fight them off. Pruitt then reveals to him that should he fail to prove that the crew survived, the Lima Project station will have to be destroyed. Roy obtains passage to Mars on the SpaceCom cruiser ''Cepheus''. 

Roy tells the captain of ''Cepheus'', Tanner, to ignore a distress signal being emitted by a biomedical research station, but the captain replies that they are bound by protocol to investigate it. The two men access the station, only to be attacked by a laboratory baboon that has gone feral. Tanner is mauled to death before Roy kills the baboon by suffocating it in an airlock. Another surge hits as the ''Cepheus'' attempts to land on Mars. Roy assumes command and calmly lands the ship. After securing himself in the underground SpaceCom complex, Roy begins recording voice messages and transmitting them to the Lima Project in hopes that Clifford will respond. After numerous attempts, SpaceCom finally receives a response, but Roy is denied permission to accompany the search party.

Roy is visited by facility director Helen Lantos, who reveals that her parents were Lima Project team members. She shows him classified footage revealing that Clifford's team mutinied and attempted to return to Earth, causing him to shut off their life-support systems; her parents were among those killed. She also admits that the ''Cepheus'' has secret orders to destroy the Lima Project with a nuclear weapon; the search party is merely a formality to keep him quiet. They decide that Roy should confront Clifford, so Lantos advises him to stow away aboard the party's rocket as it departs. 

Roy climbs aboard as the rocket takes off and is immediately discovered by the crew, who are unintentionally killed in the confrontation. During the 79-day journey to Neptune, a solitary Roy reflects on his relationship with his father and with his estranged wife, Eve. He finally arrives at the station and plants the nuclear bomb before encountering Clifford, the sole survivor of the Lima Project. Clifford explains that the surges are coming from the ship's malfunctioning antimatter power source, which was damaged in the mutiny. He also admits to Roy that he never really cared about his family and does not consider Earth his home.

Roy copies data gathered by the Lima Project team and persuades Clifford to accompany him back to Earth. He arms the bomb and they climb out on the station's outer hull to return to the ''Cepheus''. Clifford suddenly launches them into space using his spacesuit's thrusters. The old man pleads for Roy to untether him so he can die amongst the stars; Roy reluctantly does so and watches his father drift away into space. He propels himself back to the ''Cepheus'' using his own spacesuit. Discovering that the ship was deliberately left without enough fuel to return home, Roy relies on the shock wave from the nuclear explosion in the station to propel the ''Cepheus'' back towards Mars so he can alert Lantos.

The data retrieved from the Lima Project base suggests that humans are the only intelligent life in the galaxy, but also contains a treasure trove of information on exoplanets, planetary systems, and other celestial bodies in the Milky Way that could potentially aid scientific and human colonization efforts. Roy returns to Earth with a newfound optimism, meeting with his estranged wife again.

