An alien diplomat (Xu Zheng) is sent to Earth to establish intergalactic diplomatic relations. The superpower nation "Armenika" (a portmanteau of Armenia and the United States of America) selfishly hide this contact with alien life, believing they are "the most advanced civilization on earth" and therefore have the sole right to do so. However, the alien resents its assignment due to the requirement to interact with lower life forms.  The treaty must be signed by exchanging DNA which is performed by putting a ball into the mouth and coating it with saliva. Armenika's Captain Zach Andrews (Matthew Morrison), through his own sense of self-importance, fumbles the signing of the treaty when he takes a selfie, and the alien interprets the flash as a sign of aggression.  A satellite hits the alien spaceship, causing it to tumble out of orbit, landing in an amusement park.

Two Chinese men working at the park, monkey trainer Geng Hao (Huang Bo){{refn|group=note|Both the character and the actor who plays him is taken from ''Crazy Racer'', another of Ning's films.}} and his business-savvy wine merchant friend Shen Tengfei (Shen Teng), find the crashed alien spaceship, mistaking the alien diplomat for an exotic South American monkey, and remove the alien's headband. Having been in the circus monkey business their entire life, they do not know anything else, so they begin to train the alien as a performing monkey, much to the diplomat's disgust. Meanwhile, Armenika sends John Stockton{{refn|group=note|Stockton bears no relation to the basketball player of the same name.}} (Tom Pelphrey), their top operative, to search for the alien. The alien manages to take photographs of its surroundings by gaining access to its headband for brief periods of time, one of its gadgets apparently being a camera. Due to the setting being an amusement park, it has many replicas of famous architectural monuments around the world. The Armenikan agents intercept the transmission of the photographs, believing it to be in those locations, they go to the Kremlin and the pyramids of Giza, shooting everyone along the way. They eventually catch up with the alien.

Meanwhile, Geng and Shen differ in opinion on what to do with the "monkey". Geng wishes to sell it but Shen instead wishes to make it a successful performer. The alien regains access to its headband which gives it telekinetic powers and confronts the two men, turning the tables and forcing them to perform for its amusement. It demands Geng to sign the treaty by putting a new ball in his mouth, but he misunderstands and swallows the ball. They outsmart the alien, getting the alien very drunk, believing they have killed it, immerse its body in alcohol, planning to sell it. When the Armenikans arrive they hide the alien by dressing up their performing monkey in the alien's suit. They are taken with the disguised monkey to the Armenikan embassy, and the Armenikans interrogate them about the alien. They agree to help. Extracting the ball from his feces, Geng presents it to Agent Stockton, who proceeds to sign the treaty. The two men successfully pass off the monkey as the alien, performing their usual performing monkey show but with commentary explaining the fine points of intergalactic diplomatic etiquette and are let go. Stockton is told by a forensic scientist that the DNA they extracted from the ball was from a monkey, himself and an Asian man's feces. Discovering that he had been tricked, Stockton pursues the two men.

Upon returning home, Geng and Shen discover the alien has resurrected.  Stockton follows and arrives shortly after.  A final battle ensues and ends with the two Chinese men getting drunk with the alien, signing the treaty with a third and final ball and the alien telekinetically taking all the alcohol home with it.

