C.J. Walker is an ambitious science prodigy who is working to build a time machine alongside her best friend, Sebastian "Bash" Thomas. Their first attempt fails shortly before the last day of school.

C.J. and Sebastian's last class is with Mr. Lockhart, their science teacher. As the teens are hoping to present their class project at the science expo on the week of July 5, she asks him to raise their project grade to impress potential scouts. He invites her to contemplate the ethical and philosophical ramifications of time travel.

The pair's second attempt succeeds, sending them back 24 hours. C.J. seeks revenge on her ex-boyfriend Jared by pranking him. He chases her and is hit by a car, breaking his arm. Sebastian criticizes C.J. before they nearly see their past selves and return to the present.

On July 4, C.J.'s older brother Calvin and his friend Dennis leave a party after Jared confronts him over C.J. As they are walking away, two other black men bump into them rushing down the street. Shortly after, a police car approaches and the officers are immediately suspicious of them. Mistaking them for the thieves they had been chasing, one of the officers kills Calvin.

After Calvin's funeral, C.J. insists on going back a second time to save him. Sebastian expresses concern about the risk, but agrees to join her. They plan to reroute Calvin and Dennis before the shooting, but Jared spots and chases them for breaking his arm. The detour causes them to arrive too late to save Calvin.

They try a third time, enlisting their classmate Eduardo's help and borrowing his highly resilient circuit boards. This time, C.J. tries to stop the convenience store robbery and avoid the police chase entirely by warning the shop owner. The owner pulls a gun on her before a shootout begins, during which Sebastian is shot. As C.J. follows him out of the shop, another Sebastian from a previous trip catches sight of her. He sees himself dying on the sidewalk and disappears as the current Sebastian dies. 
 
C.J. goes back a fourth time to save both Sebastian and Calvin. They reach Calvin and Dennis in time, but she struggles to convince them of the situation. The officer who previously killed Calvin drives up to them, and Calvin says that he had nothing to do with the robbery. The officer subdues all four of them, and when Calvin realizes the others could get killed, he sacrifices himself as C.J. and Sebastian escape.

Back in the present, Sebastian confronts C.J. and demands to know how many times she has gone back. She admits that the previous attempt was the fourth time and that he had died on the third. He forbids her to try again, but she travels a fifth time.

Back in time and alone, C.J. breaks into a run.

