In the year 2058, an anomalously expanding red giant Sun threatens to engulf the Earth within 100 years. The world's nations are forced to consolidate into a world government and construct 12,000 enormous fusion-powered "Earth Engines" to thrust Earth out of the Solar System. Before going on his mission aboard the Navigation Platform International Space Station, Chinese astronaut Liu Peiqiang leaves his son Qi in the care of his father-in-law Han Zi'ang. Half of humanity, mostly chosen by non-transferable lottery, are moved into underground cities; the remaining billions dying in the cataclysms resulting from stopping the Earth's rotation and thrusting the planet from its orbit, and later with the Earth's surface temperature dropping to colder than {{convert|-70|C|F}} as the Earth moves further from the sun.

Seventeen years later, in 2075, Liu Peiqiang is set to return to Earth after the Chinese New Year. His son Liu Qi, now an adult, obtains fake IDs and stolen thermal suits from criminal gangs and "borrows" his grandfather's clearance pass to take his foster sister, Han Duoduo, to requisition a heavy transport vehicle to see the surface. Both are arrested at a nearby checkpoint and get jailed, meeting another prisoner, Tim. Han Zi'ang attempts to bribe an official for the release of his grandchildren, but is himself arrested. As Earth approaches its gravity assist around Jupiter, a spike in tidal force causes devastating earthquakes that disable many Earth Engines and sets the planet on a collision course with Jupiter.

The four escape the prison amidst the structural collapse of the city and attempt to make their way to another underground city inside Han Zi'ang's truck, but are requisitioned for an emergency mission led by Captain Wang Lei to transport a Lighter Core to restart an Earth Engine in Hangzhou. In the frozen ruins of Shanghai, they lose their vehicle while transporting the component up the ruins of the Shanghai Tower, where Han Zi'ang freezes to death. After a confrontation with the other rescue team members, Liu, Tim and Han Duoduo abandon the mission. The trio come upon a crashed cargo plane with an intact vehicle, where the surviving engineer aboard, Li Yiyi, eventually convinces them to transport another Lighter Core to repair the Earth Engine in Sulawesi, reconciling with the other members on the way.

Aboard the space station, Liu Peiqiang discovers that MOSS, the computer commanding the station, has decided to abandon Earth to destruction and repurpose the station as an interstellar ark to seed a new planet with Earth's biosphere. Liu breaks out of forced hibernation and attempts to reach the control room. He is joined by his good friend and Russian cosmonaut Maxim Makarov who was awakened by MOSS to stop Liu. While spacewalking, Makarov is killed by the spacecraft's automated security measures. Liu enters the control room, but his attempts of overriding the evacuation procedures are revoked due to insubordination. Liu Qi's group arrives at the Sulawesi Supply Depot to find that the engine was already fully restored along with most others around the planet. However, the combined thrust of the engines is no longer able to divert the trajectory, with Earth approaching Jupiter's Roche limit. Believing the end is inevitable, MOSS broadcasts a final message to the world, but Liu Peiqiang is reluctant to follow the computer's instructions.

Liu Qi proposes to ignite the mixture of Jupiter's hydrogen with Earth's oxygenated atmosphere, which would cause a shockwave that would knock Earth back into its regular path and away from Jupiter. Li Yiyi configures the Sulawesi engine to fire a plasma beam tall enough to ignite Jupiter, but the group is unable to push the firing pin and ignite the engine. Contacted by Duoduo, Liu Peiqiang is able to persuade the UEG to use its communication channels to call assistance for the party at Sulawesi, but MOSS reveals that the attempted solution was already proposed by Israeli scientists and has zero chance of success. Other rescue parties arrive and together manage to ignite multiple engines, but it falls short of being able to ignite the Jovian hydrogen. After disabling MOSS using a fire started with a bottle of vodka that Makarov smuggled on board, Liu Peiqiang flies the space station into the plasma jet, tearfully apologizing to his son for breaking his promise before sacrificing himself to ignite the mix of atmospheres. The subsequent explosion narrowly saves Earth from destruction.

Three years later, Qi, Duoduo, and Li YiYi work as truck operators, as Earth continues towards the Alpha Centauri star system.

