Intelligence and infantry specialist Duke leads the G.I. Joe Team to the Korean Demilitarized Zone to find a North Korean defector. They are then assigned another mission to steal nuclear warheads from Pakistan after the death of its President during a civil war. Deeming them as traitors for causing an international incident, Zartan, still impersonating the President of the United States, calls an airstrike that kills Duke and most of the other Joes. Heavy machine gunner Roadblock, sniper/parkour expert Flint, and covert operator Lady Jaye survive the attack by diving into a well, and they return to the United States to contact General Joseph Colton, who provides them with weapons.

Meanwhile, Storm Shadow, who survived the Arctic base's destruction,{{efn|As depicted in ''G.I. Joe: The Rise of Cobra'' (2009)}} and demolitions expert Firefly rescue Cobra Commander from an underground maximum-security prison in Germany, leaving Destro behind. Storm Shadow is injured and retreats to a temple in the Himalayas to recover. The Blind Master, leader of the Arashikage Clan, sends Snake Eyes and his apprentice Jinx, to capture Storm Shadow, allowing him to answer the murder of his uncle, the Hard Master.

After Zartan announces that Cobra will become the premier U.S. special forces team, replacing G.I. Joe, Lady Jaye deduces that someone is impersonating the President by noting changes in his speech patterns. At a presidential fundraiser, she steals a sample of the President's DNA, confirming that he is Zartan. They escape after a confrontation with Firefly and Zandar, the head of the U.S. Secret Service's Presidential Detail and a member of Cobra.

Snake Eyes and Jinx locate and capture Storm Shadow after a battle with some ninjas loyal to Storm Shadow and take him back to Tokyo, where Storm Shadow proclaims that he did not kill the Hard Master and proves it by fighting Snake Eyes with the weapon that killed the Hard Master, which breaks as it isn't Arashikage steel. The Blind Master deduces that Zartan was the one that murdered the Hard Master and framed Storm Shadow for it, who joined Cobra to bring it down from the inside. Exonerated, Storm Shadow accompanies Snake Eyes and Jinx, his cousin, as they join the Joes' efforts to stop Cobra and avenge the Hard Master.

Zartan invites the world leaders to a summit at Fort Sumter, where he blackmails them into disabling their nuclear arsenals, and reveals that he has created Project Zeus: seven orbital kinetic bombardment weapons of mass destruction at his command. To prove his superiority, he destroys Central London and activates the remaining weapons, offering to disarm them if the countries submit to Cobra. Storm Shadow betrays Cobra Commander and starts a fight, revealing Cobra's deception to the world leaders. Colton kills Zandar and rescues the real President with Lady Jaye, while Storm Shadow kills Zartan. While Snake Eyes, Jinx, and Flint fight Cobra's soldiers, Cobra Commander instructs Firefly to protect the launch device, and escapes by helicopter. Roadblock overpowers Firefly and destroys the orbital weapons. Storm Shadow leaves after avenging his uncle.

At the White House ceremony, the real President addresses the nation and commemorates the Joes, who were awarded by Colton: Roadblock, Snake Eyes, Jinx, Flint, and Lady Jaye. Colton presents Roadblock with an M1911 pistol that belonged to General George S. Patton, to be used when they find Cobra Commander. Roadblock proudly raises the weapon and fires a single shot in honor of his fallen comrades, vowing to avenge them.

