While visiting his mother's grave, Barry Allen, known as the Flash, is alerted to a break-in  by Captain Cold, Captain Boomerang, Heat Wave, Mirror Master, and Top at the Flash Museum. Defeating the rogues, he discovers they have been hired by his arch-enemy Professor Zoom as part of a plan to destroy Central City. With the help of the Justice League, Zoom's plot is thwarted. While being taken to prison, Zoom taunts Flash over the death of his mother.

The next day, Barry discovers that the world has changed: his powers are gone, his mother is alive, his wife Iris is married to someone else, and the Justice League does not exist. Aquaman and his Atlantean forces have sunk Western Europe, while Wonder Woman has led the Amazons in conquering United Kingdom. Both forces have been at war since an alliance between them collapsed after Wonder Woman killed Aquaman's wife Mera, who had confronted her for having an affair with Aquaman. Cyborg has assembled a team to eliminate both parties and approaches Batman to join them, but his refusal leads the government to scrap the plan, and instead recruit pilot Hal Jordan to fly an alien spacecraft to bomb the Atlanteans.

Barry visits Wayne Manor, but is attacked by Batman{{mdash}}who he realizes is not Bruce Wayne but his father Thomas. Attempting to explain things to Batman, Barry tries to show him his Flash costume. However, the costume in his ring turns out to be Professor Zoom's, causing Barry to believe Zoom is responsible for the timeline alteration. Convinced that Barry is a good guy, Batman helps him recreate the accident that gave him his powers, but the attempt fails, and Barry is severely burned.

In London, Steve Trevor attempts to extricate reporter Lois Lane, but is discovered by the Amazons and killed. The Amazons hunt down Lane, who is rescued by the local resistance. Meanwhile, in the remains of Paris, Deathstroke and Lex Luthor are attacked and killed by Aquaman's forces while tracking the energy trail of Aquaman's new weapon, which is powered by a captive Captain Atom. At the Batcave, after realizing that his memories are changing, Barry asks Batman to recreate the accident again. The second attempt is successful. Barry regains his powers but cannot travel through time because Zoom is also using the Speed Force. 

Barry recruits more allies, beginning with Superman, who is a prisoner of the U.S. Government after his ship crashed into Metropolis. With the aid of Batman and Cyborg, they liberate Superman, who, after being empowered by Earth's yellow sun, fends off the facility's security before fleeing in fear and confusion. Barry collapses as his memories continue to change and is taken to Billy Batson's home to recuperate. There, he learns that Jordan's attack has failed, and the final battle between Amazons and Atlanteans has begun. 

Barry convinces the superheroes to help stop the war, and they depart for Britain aboard Batman's jet, only to be shot down upon arrival. Batson and his siblings combine into Captain Thunder to fight Wonder Woman, while Barry, Cyborg and Batman occupy Aquaman. Zoom reveals himself and viciously beats Barry. He explains that Barry is responsible for this alternate timeline: Barry traveled back in time to save his mother, fracturing the fabric of reality. Wonder Woman uses her lasso to force Captain Thunder back into Batson and kills him.

Superman arrives but cannot save Cyborg from Aquaman, who remotely detonates his Captain Atom-powered bomb. As the explosion tears across the landscape, Zoom is killed by Batman. The dying Batman urges Barry to run, giving him a letter addressed to Bruce. Barry races back in time and stops his earlier self, again fracturing time and creating a new timeline. Barry awakens at his desk and finds that reality is apparently back to normal. He visits Bruce to tell him about everything that occurred and gives him the letter. Wayne thanks him before Barry runs off. 

In a post-credits scene, a Boom Tube opens in space above Earth and a horde of Parademons emerges.{{refn|group=N|The story continues in ''Justice League: War'' (2014).}}

