In 2045, Rohit Mehra lives with his son Krishna in Mumbai. Krishna is married to Priya, a journalist for Aaj Tak and Rohit works in a research institute. Krishna, while moonlighting as superhero ''Krrish'', is regularly fired from various day jobs due to lack of attendance. Rohit is researching a device that will bring life to dead tissues by the use of solar energy. 

A deadly virus is spreading in Namibia whose antidote has not yet been discovered. Rohit's friend Dr. Varun Shetty, and Dr. Alok Sen, a scientist who wants to meet him to reveal information about the virus, are murdered by Kaya, a shapeshifting female mutant. She is the secretary of Kaal, a handicapped evil genetist with telekinetic powers. Kaal creates a team of human-animal hybrids called ''Maanvars'' with distinct physical powers to cure himself but to no avail.  

The virus was spread by Kaal himself to incur huge profits by selling its antidote. Rohit discovers that the virus, now spreading through Mumbai, has no effect on Krishna, Priya (pregnant with Krishna's child) or himself. He makes an antidote with Krishna's blood, which he spreads with explosions. Kaal sends his mutants to attack Rohit. Krrish saves Rohit but Priya is injured. Carrying out Kaal's instructions, Kaya shapeshifts into Priya while Priya is kidnapped by Kaal. 

Posing as Priya, Kaya leads Krishna to believe that Priya has lost her child, and lives with the Mehras. While discovering the truth behind the antidote, she develops feelings for Krishna. Rohit travels to Singapore to seek answers from Dr. Siddhant Arya's partner, where he is kidnapped by Kaal's men. Krishna discovers Priya's kidnapping, reveals himself as Krrish, and asks Kaya to take him to Kaal's laboratory. Kaya decides to help rescue Priya. It is revealed that Kaal is Rohit's son, created by an experiment conducted by Dr. Arya while Rohit was held hostage by him years earlier. He was born handicapped and adopted by a wealthy man. 

Kaal uses Rohit's bone marrow to cure his disability. Kaya saves Priya but is murdered by Kaal for her disloyalty. Kaal also murders Krrish. Rohit re-uses his failed dead tissues experiment to save Krishna. He transfers his powers to Krishna, killing himself. Krrish manages to kill Kaal using Rohit's solar experiment.

Six months later, Krishna and Priya, who are 27 years old, names their newborn son, Rohit Mehra. The baby also seems to exhibit superpowers.

