At the beginning of 2013, Former United Nations investigator Gerry Lane, his wife, Karin, and their two daughters, Rachel and Connie, are stuck in Philadelphia traffic when the city is overrun by zombies; Gerry discovers that it takes 12 seconds for a bitten person to turn into an infected zombie. The family escapes to Newark and take refuge with a couple and their young son, Tommy. They are rescued by a helicopter sent by UN Deputy Secretary-General Thierry Umutoni, and they bring Tommy with them after his parents are infected. The group is brought to a US Navy vessel in the Atlantic Ocean, where scientists and military personnel are analyzing the outbreak. Andrew Fassbach, a virologist, insists the plague is a virus and the development of a vaccine depends on finding its origin. Gerry, after his family is threatened with eviction from the safety of the vessel, agrees to help Fassbach.

Gerry, Fassbach, and a Navy SEAL escort fly to Camp Humphreys in South Korea on a C-130 Hercules (there is a notable continuity error in the movie which repeatedly switches between an Antonov An-12 and a Lockheed C-130 Hercules<ref>{{Citation |title=World War Z (2013) - Goofs - IMDb |url=https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0816711/goofs/ |access-date=2023-11-05 |language=en-US}}</ref>) where the first report of zombies occurred. They are attacked by zombies upon landing, causing Fassbach to panic and accidentally kill himself with his own gun. US soldiers at the camp rescue the team, and Gerry learns the infection was introduced to the base by its doctor. There, an imprisoned CIA officer directs Gerry to Israel, where the Mossad learned about the virus before the outbreak and managed to build a safe zone. Only Gerry and the pilot escape when their plane is attacked by zombies during take-off from the base.

In Jerusalem, Gerry meets Jurgen Warmbrunn, a high-ranking Mossad official, who explains that they intercepted communications from Indian troops fighting against zombies. The country managed to quarantine itself by building a large wall, and allows refugees to enter the city. However, loud celebratory singing from the refugees attracts zombies from outside and the zombies manage to climb up and breach the wall. As the city is quickly overrun, Warmbrunn orders Israeli soldiers to escort Gerry back to his plane; during the chaos, Gerry notices zombies bypassing an old man and an emaciated boy who had got down to the ground, and stayed still. When one of the escorts, "Segen", is bitten on her hand, Gerry amputates the appendage, preventing further infection, and the pair escape aboard a commercial airliner.

Gerry calls Thierry and has him divert the plane to a World Health Organization medical research facility in Cardiff. A stowaway zombie is discovered, and people aboard are quickly infected. Gerry sets off a grenade to rupture the cabin and ejects the zombies, but the grenade explosion results in the plane crash landing.

Gerry and Segen survive the crash, though Gerry is trapped in his seat and has been injured. Segen appears and assist Gerry. They head to the Cardiff facility, where Gerry faints from his injuries before awaking three days later after receiving medical treatment from the WHO staff, who are initially very hostile. He explains his theory to the WHO scientists &ndash; that the zombies bypass terminally ill or injured people, as they are unsuitable hosts for infection. He suggests injecting healthy people with a curable pathogen as "camouflage" against the zombies. However, the scientists' pathogen samples are located in a zombie-infested portion of the WHO facility. Gerry, Segen, and the head doctor battle their way through the lab. Before Gerry can leave, a lone zombie blocks his way, forcing him to inject himself to test his theory. When Gerry opens the door, his theory is proven correct; the zombie bypasses him, allowing him to safely walk past the rest of the zombies with the pathogen samples in hand.

Gerry and Segen arrive at a safe zone in Freeport, Nova Scotia, where he is reunited with his family. A vaccine is quickly developed that acts as a camouflage against the zombies, allowing civilians to safely escape infested areas and military forces to battle the zombies more effectively.

