The story is set in 1890s Siam.<ref>Lord Waeng mentions that the railway to Korat has been newly opened, placing the time frame of the story sometime in the 1890s. ([http://www.railway.co.th/English/History.asp Historical background] {{Webarchive|url=https://web.archive.org/web/20070129053850/http://www.railway.co.th/English/History.asp |date=2007-01-29 }}, State Railway of Thailand, December 29, 2006.)</ref> Siang is a young Muay Thai warrior and rocketry expert, raised in a Buddhist temple, who steals back water buffalo taken from poor Isan farmers by unscrupulous cattle raiders. He is searching for a man with a tattoo in the chest who killed his parents.

A local nobleman, Lord Waeng, wants to create a market for his steam tractors, so he hires a hulking convict and the Thief to burn the farmhouses together with black wizard, kill all the cattle traders, take the farmers as hostages at an outside near the farmhouse and round up all the water buffalo for slaughter, depriving farmers of the draft animals they need to cultivate rice. Lord Waeng's men are eventually pitted against Nai Hoi Singh, a cattle trader with supernatural powers and a tattoo on his chest. The tattoo gets Siang's attention, and while the Thief is attempting to steal Sing's cattle herd, Siang briefly confronts Sing but is repelled.

Lord Waeng consults the black wizard Nai Hoi Dam, a former partner of Sing who was once cursed by him so that he cannot withstand sunlight before Dam angrily to find a way to defeat Sing ,returning to block the power that released Sing's curse and angrily shouted at the farmers during the curse. Dam says the only way to nullify his spells is to use the menstrual blood of a virgin – the black wizard's daughter, E'Sao. They enlist the help of Siang, with Waeng pretending to be a fellow orphan by Singh's hand, and all together manage to submit Singh in an ambush. However, Dam reveals that he was in fact the man that murdered Siang's parents, and that the tattoo was a mark of sorcery both of them have. Siang and a disabled Singh manage to flee.

In Waeng's palace, Dam also reveals that E'Sao is not his daughter, but a baby he kidnapped, and intends to rape her so Singh remains magically disabled for good. Waeng poisons him, but Dam transfers his consciousness to Waeng's own body. Siang assaults the place, beating the Thief, but he is unable to defeat Dam, and it is not until Singh recovers his powers and gives Siang amulets extracted from his chest that the battle becomes even. The weakened Singh dies in a magical duel against Dam, but Siang defeats the black wizard, who is obstructed by Waeng's lingering mind. At the end, Siang and E'Sao use rockets to fire Dam against Waeng's tractor, exploding and killing both villains at once. The couple leaves on a buffalo into the sunset.

