Lok, who was elected chairman of the Hong Kong triad Wo Lin Shing for two years during the first film, contemplates breaking tradition by seeking re-election for an unprecedented second term. Lok meets his triad godsons, Big-Head, Jet, Jimmy, Kun, and Mr. So. Kun, who has been released from jail after the events of the first film, declares his candidacy for triad chairman. Kun asks for Lok's support, but Lok declines. Lok privately offers support to Jet for chairmanship if Jet will kill for him, despite Jet being disfavored by triad elders for recklessness.

The triad elders view Jimmy as a good potential chairman as he has become a successful businessman, but Jimmy refuses to run because he is trying to change his business activity in Mainland China from illegitimate to legitimate, and as such he is leery of letting triad activities affect his business. Jimmy promotes triad member Lik to work more closely with him. During a trip to Mainland China to bribe a local official, Jimmy and Lik are arrested by the Mainland Chinese police. High-ranking policeman Xi personally releases Jimmy, while indicating that Jimmy cannot do business in Mainland China unless he becomes Wo Lin Shing's next chairman, works with the Mainland police, and acts patriotically.

After Jimmy enters the election as a strong candidate, Lok urges Kun during a fishing trip to withdraw from the election, asking for Kun's support for Lok's second term, and promising to support Kun in the next election. Kun counter-offers of becoming co-chairmen with Lok. With neither backing down, physical conflict nearly arises, but witnesses arrive at the scene, and the two agree to take down Jimmy first. Jimmy hires hitman Bo, and then has Lik murdered after triad elders inform Jimmy that Lik is a police informant.

Kun kidnaps Jimmy's financial backer Mr. Kwok and hides him in a coffin together with Big-Head. Lok threatens to kill Mr. Kwok if Jimmy does not withdraw from the race, but Jimmy refuses. Lok hides the Dragonhead Baton, the symbol of the chairman's authority, in Mainland China. When triad elder Uncle Teng tells Lok not to run for a second term and predicts Jimmy's ascension, Lok personally murders Uncle Teng and sends Jet to assassinate Jimmy. Jet takes Jimmy and Jimmy's wife hostage. Jimmy indicates that Lok is deceitfully using Jet, while Jimmy's wife hits Jet and escapes. Jet releases Jimmy unharmed, who refuses to let Bo kill Jet.

Jimmy and Bo orchestrate the kidnapping of Lok's lieutenants to persuade them to kill Lok without revealing Jimmy's involvement. They agree after Jimmy personally murders one of Lok's lieutenants and feeds his remains to dogs. Kun attempts to assassinate Jimmy, but fails. Bo rescues the coffin containing Mr. Kwok and Big-Head, passing it to Jimmy. Kun kills Bo in retaliation. Jimmy passes the coffin to the police, exposing Kun's kidnapping, causing Kun to flee Hong Kong. Meanwhile, Lok's actual son has grown distant from him, performing badly in school and associating with gangs. Lok finds gangsters exhorting his son, who runs away. Shortly after, Lok is assassinated by his lieutenants. After Jimmy denies ordering Lok's death, the triad elders elect Jimmy as chairman, and he vows to step down in two years. Later, Jimmy rescues Jet from an attack by armed men, but Jet rebuffs Jimmy's offer to work together.

When Jimmy visits Mainland China again, his legitimate business is proceeding with approval by the Mainland police. Xi passes Jimmy the Dragonhead Baton, which the Mainland police seized from Lok's underling. Xi indicates that the good relationship between the triad and the Mainland police is contingent on Jimmy serving as chairman until he can pass on leadership to his future children, as the Mainland police do not want an uncontrollable and unstable triad leader like Lok, whereas Jimmy would help maintain peace in the country. This devastates Jimmy, because he wanted himself and his children to find success outside the triad. Jimmy repeatedly punches Xi, who does not retaliate, instead thanking Jimmy for his future cooperation. Jimmy buries the Dragonhead Baton with Uncle Teng. The film ends with Jimmy's wife revealing her pregnancy to him, leaving Jimmy to reflect on his family's future.

