While giving a speech, the president is shot by a man holding a camera. The president's main Secret Service agent, Alex Thomas (Cuba Gooding Jr.), is grazed by the bullet that hits the president. Thomas and other Secret Service agents kill the shooter, but the president dies at the hospital.

Kate Crawford (Angie Harmon), an investigative journalist, starts asking questions about the assassination. Anyone she questions is killed. She goes to Thomas's house to tell him what is happening. As they head to his boat, Thomas sees some men hiding in the bushes. He sees a bomb on his boat, and throws Crawford into the water and dives in after her as the boat explodes. While the pair are underwater, the men move close and open fire on them. Thomas kills two of the hitmen while a third hitman drives off to inform his boss what happened. Thomas and Crawford are able to link the hitmen to a man called Jack Baldwin (Peter Greene).

Thomas and other Secret Service members attack Baldwin's location. Baldwin escapes but is later caught by Thomas. After a meeting with General Montgomery (Burt Reynolds), Thomas and Crawford become suspicious of Vaughan Stevens (James Woods), Thomas's boss, who turns out to have had previous links to Baldwin. While reviewing film of the assassination, Thomas discovers that Stevens handed the assassin a gun during the president's entrance. Thomas leaves to find Stevens while Crawford stays at his house.

When Thomas arrives at Stevens' home he finds him dead. Thomas sees a car with a female driver leaving the house. He then receives a call that Baldwin has escaped. Baldwin attacks Crawford, but Thomas arrives and kills him. Thomas arrives at the first lady's (Anne Archer) house to see the car that left Stevens' house pulling away. Thomas discovers that the first lady wanted her husband killed because he was being unfaithful to her.

A few weeks later Crawford and Thomas have dinner. Thomas decides that protecting the dead president's reputation is more important than implicating his widow, and tells Crawford that he still does not know who wanted the president dead.

