In Oro Valley, Arizona, High school troublemaker Sean Boswell races classmate Clay in their respective 1971 Chevy Monte Carlo and 2003 SRT-10 Dodge Viper, when they end up ramming each other and crash. While Clay's family wealth helps him escape punishment, Sean is sent to live with his father, a U.S. Navy lieutenant stationed in Tokyo, to avoid jail time as he is a repeat offender. Sean befriends military brat Twinkie, who introduces him to drift racing. Driving to an underground car meet in Twinkie's 2005 Volkswagen Touran, Sean gets into a confrontation with Takashi, the Drift King (DK), over Takashi's girlfriend Neela. Sean agrees to race Takashi's Nissan Fairlady Z33 in a Silvia S15 Spec-S leant to him by retired drift racer Han Lue. Unexperienced with drifting, Sean wrecks the Silvia and loses.

To repay the debt, Sean agrees to work for Han. Han begins teaching drift racing to Sean, whom he calls the only person ever to stand up to Takashi, who is connected to the Yakuza through his uncle Kamata. Sean masters the art, practicing in a 2006 Mitsubishi Lancer Evo IX, and gains further respect after defeating Takashi's lieutenant Morimoto. Han and Sean become friends.

Sean eventually asks Neela out on a date; Neela explains that after her mother died, she moved in with Takashi's grandmother. An irate Takashi assaults Sean the next day, telling him to stay away from Neela. Neela leaves Takashi and moves in with Sean and Han.

After Kamata reprimands Takashi for allowing Han to steal from him, Takashi and Morimoto confront Han, Sean, and Neela, who flee after Twinkie creates a distraction. Takashi and Morimoto pursue the trio, with Morimoto crashing, and Han buying Sean and Neela time to escape. The chase ends when Han's 1994 Veilside RX-7 is broadsided by a 1992 Mercedes-Benz W140 S-Class sedan, then explodes. Takashi later draws a gun on Sean, but his father draws on Takashi; the standoff ends when Neela agrees to leave with Takashi. Sean and his father make amends, while Twinkie gives money to Sean to compensate Kamata for the stolen funds. Sean delivers the cash to Kamata and challenges Takashi to a drift, with the loser to leave Tokyo. Kamata agrees on the condition they downhill drift a mountain pass only Takashi has descended successfully. Sean and Han's crew restore Sean's father's 1967 Ford Mustang Fastback and tune it to drift specification, making use of the engine and other components from the wrecked Silvia.

On the mountain, Takashi initially leads, but Sean's practice and training allow him to catch up. Desperate, Takashi rams Sean repeatedly. Takashi eventually misses, subsequently driving off a cliff and crashing as Sean crosses the finish line. Kamata honors his word, and Sean, dubbed the new Drift King, remains in Tokyo. Neela, Twinkie, and Sean, now driving a Silvia S15 Spec R, enjoy themselves at a car meet when Dominic Toretto arrives in a 1970 Plymouth Road Runner to challenge Sean to a race. Sean accepts after Dom proclaims Han was family.

