In 2009, British rock star Aldous Snow releases his new album and a titular single, "African Child", which is a commercial and critical failure. In an interview, his girlfriend, pop star Jackie Q, drunkenly declares they have a boring life. Aldous relapses, ending their relationship and losing custody of his son, Naples.

Meanwhile, in Los Angeles, Aaron Green is a talent scout at Pinnacle Records, living with his girlfriend Daphne, who is completing a medical residency at a local hospital. Pinnacle is performing poorly, and the head of the company, Sergio Roma, asks for ideas. Aaron suggests Aldous play at the Greek Theatre on the tenth anniversary of a performance there in 1999.

Sergio sends Aaron to London to escort Aldous to Los Angeles. Daphne informs Aaron that she has received a residency job offer in Seattle and that they are moving there. They argue and seemingly break up. Aaron meets Aldous and learns that he had not been expecting him, thinking that the concert was not for two months. They bar-hop across the city as Aaron tries to get Aldous to catch a flight to New York City.

Aaron and Aldous go to New York City for Aldous's appearance on ''Today''. To keep him sober, Aaron imbibes all of Aldous's alcohol and drugs. While performing live, Aldous is unable to remember the lyrics to "African Child", and replaces it with an old hit, "The Clap", to cheers from the audience. Daphne calls Aaron to apologize, only to learn that he believes they broke up. While partying, Aaron's phone accidentally calls Daphne, informing her of his drunken activities.

On their flight to Los Angeles, Aaron learns that Aldous has become depressed, as he misses his son and has been alienated from his own father, Jonathan, for years. Aaron suggests he visit him after the show; instead, Aldous insists they go to Las Vegas to see Jonathan. Sergio, having been keeping tabs on the two, arrives to take control of the situation. Meanwhile, Aldous and Jonathan argue over Jonathan's seeming disinterest in his son outside of his career and his mockery of Aldous's mother. Sergio hooks Aaron up with a sexually violent girl, Destiny, who takes him to a hotel room and rapes him. After Aaron tells Aldous that he has been raped, Aldous gives him a laced marijuana joint to calm him down. He has a bad trip, causing a fight that inadvertently sets the hotel lounge on fire.

Believing he is having a heart attack, Aldous attempts to help Aaron by giving him an adrenaline shot. They flee a drugged up Sergio to Los Angeles, where Aaron convinces Aldous to visit Jackie Q. She has been sleeping with Metallica's drummer, Lars Ulrich, and confesses that Naples is not actually Aldous’ biological son. Meanwhile, Aaron goes to his home to apologize to Daphne. They are interrupted when Aldous arrives, proposing a threesome. Daphne agrees and Aaron hesitantly goes along.

Aaron angrily decides to kiss Aldous, ending the tryst. Daphne and Aaron both immediately regret it, and Aaron angrily tells Aldous to go, criticizing his mental state. Instead of preparing for his show, he goes to the rooftop of the Standard Hotel, and calls Aaron, threatening to jump. Aaron rushes to the hotel and attempts to talk him down.

Aaron arrives, in time to stop Aldous from jumping. Nevertheless, Aldous jumps into a pool several floors down, breaking his arm. Aldous tells him that he is lonely, sad, and embarrassed, but is reminded that thousands of fans love him and are waiting to see him. Aldous decides to perform at the Greek Theatre, although Aaron pleads for him to go to the hospital. Upon their arrival, Sergio offers Aaron drugs to give to Aldous so he will not cancel the concert. Aaron, tired of Sergio's abuse, quits on the spot, then walks stage-side with Aldous, trying to convince him to go to the hospital. However, seeing how happy Aldous is while performing, he heads home to reconcile with Daphne.

Months later, Aldous, sober again, has returned to fame with a single produced by Aaron based on events from their night in Las Vegas.

