Florence Marr is a personal assistant to the Greenberg family in Hollywood Hills. Before the family leaves on a trip to Vietnam, Phillip Greenberg explains his brother Roger will be staying at the house, ostensibly to build a doghouse for their pet German Shepherd, Mahler. Phillip's wife, Carol, confides that Roger has been recently released from a psychiatric hospital after a nervous breakdown.

Arriving from New York City, Roger has an awkward encounter with Florence, and spends his time building the doghouse, watching neighbors swim in the Greenbergs' pool, and writing various letters of complaint. His Welsh friend Ivan Schrank invites him to a party at the home of their former bandmate Eric Beller, where Roger is uncomfortable and Eric is openly hostile. Roger runs into Beth, an ex-girlfriend, explaining he is in Los Angeles to simply do nothing for a while.

Roger calls Florence to meet for a drink. He does not drive, so she picks him up, stopping at her apartment for her purse. They begin to have sex, but Florence stops him, having just come out of a long relationship and not wanting to have meaningless sex. Roger suggests they keep things platonic and she agrees, but they remain drawn to each other.

Over dinner, Eric vents that Roger declined a major record deal for their band fifteen years earlier. He marvels that Ivan, devastated by losing the contract, still speaks to him.

Noticing Mahler is lethargic, Roger calls Florence to take them to a vet, where they learn he has an autoimmune disease. Their relationship soon escalates, with Florence falling for Roger despite his outbursts and awkwardness.

Roger meets Beth for drinks and recalls minute details from their time together, which she barely remembers; she leaves abruptly when Roger tries to rekindle their relationship.

After Florence and Roger finally have sex, he yells at her for pursuing him when he does not want to become involved. The next day, a remorseful Roger calls Florence, who confesses that she is due to have an abortion the following day. Roger offers to take her; since he does not drive, Ivan drives them to the clinic, where she undergoes general anaesthesia and stays overnight.

Back at the house, Roger's college-aged niece, Sara, has turned up. Leaving for Australia in the morning with her friend Muriel, they throw a house party with dozens of their friends, with whom Roger does drugs. Ivan arrives and gets into an argument with Roger, finally voicing his feelings over their lost record deal. Roger confesses he had no idea his personal concerns would end the band, for which he feels immense guilt. They bemoan that they have ended up in lives they did not plan to have, though Ivan has made peace with his. Having learned from Florence that Roger had been hospitalized, and having been through a similar experience himself, Ivan laments that they could have helped each other. He leaves, declaring that they never truly talk, and saddened that Roger never made an effort to know Ivan's son. Dejected and inebriated, Roger leaves a long voicemail for Florence, confessing that he really likes her.

The next day, Roger jumps at Sara and Muriel's invitation to accompany them to Australia. He convinces the neighbors to take care of Mahler, but on the way to the airport, changes his mind. Instead, he goes to meet Florence at the clinic, and they return to her apartment. There, she listens to Roger's voicemail.

