Griff (Ryan Kwanten) is a socially awkward person who gets bullied by co-worker Tony by day. At night he dons the costume of a superhero and fights criminals. At times his brother Tim visits him. One day Tim tells Griff about his girlfriend Melody (Maeve Dermody) and brings her with him the next time he visits. Melody is shown to be a girl who lives in a world of absurd thoughts, such as a determination to pass through solid objects, and also isn't comfortable with other people. When Melody breaks up with Tim due to them having nothing in common, Griff and Melody start to fall in love.

After enduring further bullying at work, Griff gets an idea about becoming invisible and after some research, finds himself doing experiments by purchasing things from Melody's father's shop. He makes himself a suit and wearing it, goes to his office but is caught on camera, not yet revealing his face. Upon finding out about Griff's secret, Melody tries to encourage Griff in his work by presenting him with a 'Universe Suit' sent anonymously. Using plans from Melody, Griff builds an advanced invisibility suit to prank his tormentor, but this time his boss sees his face on camera and he gets fired from his job. That night, Tony calls a local goon and beats Griff in an alley. He returns home to retrieve his suit and police catch a bloodied Griff and later release him with a warning. It becomes apparent that the superhero, the goons he beats and his invisibility are just his imagination.

One night, when Tim goes out with Griff and Melody to an abandoned warehouse, Tim asks Melody why she is encouraging Griff, to which Melody replies that she and Griff see the world differently, and that while Griff's world is imaginary, it's what makes him special and she loves him for it. Griff overhears snippets of this conversation (due to a bad signal on the walkie-talkie) and thinks Melody believes he is a freak. Hurt over this, Griff snaps out of his fantasy and goes home to destroy the costume and all computers he was using in his imaginary world.

Later on, Griff goes to Melody's house for dinner where she realizes Griff no longer believes in his imaginary world. Soon afterwards she comes to Griff's home to ask why he's trying to act normal. When Griff tells her he's trying to grow up and now holds his superhero fantasy in disdain, she tells him he was the only one who went into her world with her and understood her in that way, and that his imagination was the reason she loved him. Heartbroken, she leaves his house and cries leaning on his door. Suddenly, she falls through the door (as she was seen trying to do earlier) and lands in Griff's room. Griff takes her into his arms and she utters, "You can believe it." They share a passionate kiss, and Griff comes to reembrace his imaginary world.

Soon after, a package falls through the mail slot of Griff's door with Melody's name written on it. Tim is then shown walking away with his new girlfriend. Griff runs into his room to put on his invisible suit, and Melody opens the box. Inside is a note from Tim that says, "Use these to be the only one who can see Griff when he's invisible. So he doesn't have to wear the hat." The device resembles a View-Master stereoscopic toy. Griff enters unseen into the room, and when Melody holds up the device to her eyes, she can see him standing there again. They smile at each other as the film ends.

