In northern Britannia, 62 AD, Roman soldiers led by general Corvus wipe out a tribe of Celtic horsemen. Corvus personally kills the parents of a boy named Milo. Being the only survivor, Milo is later captured by slave traders.

Seventeen years later, in Londinium in 79 A.D., the grown Milo becomes a popular gladiator. His owner, Graecus brings the gladiators to Pompeii. Also going there is Cassia and her servant Ariadne, who return after a year in Rome. When Milo treats one of their horses with kindness, Cassia becomes enamored of him. Her parents are the city governor Severus and his wife Aurelia. One of their servants is later swallowed up when a quake from Mount Vesuvius opens up the ground under him.

In Pompeii, Milo develops a rivalry with Atticus, a champion gladiator who, by Roman law, will be given his freedom after he earns one more victory. The gladiators are shown off at a party where Corvus, now a Senator, announces that he will invest in Severus' plans to rebuild Pompeii. Cassia left Rome to escape Corvus' advances. When an earthquake causes some horses to become anxious, Milo helps calm one down. He then takes Cassia on a ride. Being aware that they cannot be together, he returns her to the villa. Not recognizing Milo, Corvus is ready to kill him, but Cassia pleads for his life. Milo is lashed for his actions, and Atticus admits respect for his rival.

In the Amphitheatre of Pompeii, to punish Milo, Corvus orders him killed in the first battle, and trainer Bellator convinces Graecus to sacrifice Atticus, as well. The two men, and other slaves, are chained to rocks as other gladiators come out as Roman soldiers, to recreate Corvus' victory over the Celts. Working together, Milo and Atticus survive the battle, with the latter realizing the Romans will never honor his freedom. Meanwhile, Corvus forces Cassia to agree to marry him by threatening to have her family killed for supposed treason against Emperor Titus. When Milo and Atticus win, Cassia defies Corvus by holding a “thumbs-up”, saving them from execution. Corvus has her locked up in the villa and has his officer Proculus fight Milo one-on-one. Their battle is interrupted when Mount Vesuvius erupts, creating tremors that cause the arena to collapse, sending Milo and Proculus crashing to the dungeons. Milo opens up the gates, allowing his fellow gladiators a chance to attack; Proculus escapes, while Bellator is killed. Enraged, Severus tries to kill Corvus, who stabs him instead and escapes.

Flaming debris rain down upon the city as everyone tries to flee to the harbor. One fireball sinks a ship, killing the escaping Graecus. Before dying, Aurelia tells Milo that Cassia is at the villa. There, Milo manages to save Cassia, but Ariadne is killed when the villa collapses into the Mediterranean Sea. Atticus tries to reach the harbor, which is destroyed with several ships when a tsunami created by the volcano smashes into the city. Reuniting with Atticus, Milo suggests searching the arena for horses to escape. As the gladiators face Roman soldiers at the arena, Cassia is abducted by Corvus. Milo chases after the chariot carrying the two while Atticus fights Proculus. Atticus is mortally wounded in the duel, but nonetheless manages to kill Proculus.

Cassia frees herself before the chariot crashes into the Temple of Apollo. Milo and Corvus duel as a fireball destroys the temple. Cassia chains Corvus to a building, as Milo reveals who he is. He declares that his gods are coming to punish Corvus. Milo and Cassia ride off as a pyroclastic surge races into the city, incinerating Corvus. At the arena, Atticus proclaims that he dies a free man before being consumed with the city. At the outskirts, the horse throws off Milo and Cassia. Milo tells Cassia to leave him, realising the horse is not fast enough to carry them both. Instead, she sends the horse off, knowing they cannot outrun the surge. Milo kisses Cassia as the surge engulfs them.

