Growing up on a farm in rural Wisconsin, Ed Gein is abused by both his Christian fundamentalist mother, Augusta, and his alcoholic father, George. George dies of a heart attack in 1940, and four years later, Ed kills his older brother, Henry, in a fit of rage after Henry insults Augusta. Ed makes it look like Henry died in a brush fire, and lives alone with Augusta until she dies of a stroke in 1945. Ed becomes depressed after his mother's death, and lets the family farm become squalid and dilapidated, with the exception of Augusta's room, which is sealed off by Ed.

Living off of agricultural subsidies and the money that he makes from leasing land and babysitting children, the increasingly unstable Ed makes nightly excursions to the Plainfield Cemetery and digs up recently deceased elderly women. He makes futile attempts at reviving them, before decorating his home with pieces of their corpses, at one point passing "shrunken heads" off as gifts from a cousin in the Philippines.

Ed begins suffering from hallucinations of Augusta, who commands him to kill "sinful" women, starting with a tavern owner named Mary Hogan. Ed shoots Mary and takes her to his farm, where he leaves her bound to a bed until she dies. Ed butchers her body, consuming some of it, and using the rest to add to his crudely-designed "woman suit." Ed's delusions worsen, and he becomes convinced that Mary's death has resurrected Augusta, who implores Ed to kill a hardware store owner named Collette Marshall. Ed shoots Collette and brings her body back to his farm before having dinner with the Andersons, a neighboring family who he surprises with "Venison steaks."

Colette's employee, Brian, returns from a hunting trip to find the unmanned store full of blood, and calls the police. Brian suspects Ed of being involved in Mary and Collette's disappearances, and races to Ed's farm, followed by Sheriff Jim Stillwell. After finding Collette's decapitated and "dressed out" body hanging in Ed's barn, an enraged Brian tracks Ed down to the Anderson residence, but is talked out of shooting Ed by Sheriff Stillwell, who arrests Ed.

The film ends with a nonlinear montage that consists of the police uncovering evidence in Ed's home, interviews with Ed after he was diagnosed with schizophrenia and placed in a psychiatric hospital, and scenes in which Ed tries to keep his urges in check through prayer and rituals. He also exhumes corpses, only to rebury them after snapping out of a fugue state. An intertitle states that Ed died of respiratory failure in 1984, and was buried next to his mother.

