The film is divided into four anthological short stories without any connection to each other:

'''Ovarian Eyeball'''

It begins with a small scene disconnected from the rest of the story, where an eye is taken from inside a woman's belly.

'''Human Larvae'''

The narrator reveals himself to be obsessed with his sister who has just become pregnant by her husband, watching the couple have sex while masturbating hidden behind a door. He watches her do a fellatio while watching in awe. He says he feels a strong attraction to her and that semen is a kind of gift of creation while female menstruation is a bad joke. The narrator begins to show a more pronounced psychotic streak when he says that his sister's pregnancy started to make him less excited about her and that he decided to do the most horrible thing in man: kill during the creation process.

During her birth, her brother helps her to have her child. As soon as the child is born, he slits its throat with a knife and its umbilical cord, dumping the blood on her face to her horror. The sister ends up bleeding to death while the brother decides to make an altar of the baby in the sink, revealing that he wrapped him in a cloth and left him to rot there. He later reveals that his sister's body has remained in place and that he sometimes sleeps next to her. The tale ends with the narrator saying that he even tried to perform necrophilia on the woman, but as she was cold and without much life, he preferred to stop for his displeasure.

'''Rebirth'''

Some naked people start rubbing and rolling on the sand of a beach as if they were having sex with the earth. Blood starts pouring out of the sand as they start having an orgy with nature.

'''Right Brain/ Martyrdom'''

The third tale tells the story of an unknown man driven by faith who is obsessed with masturbation and watching pornographic videos. He has some nightmares, among which are several hooks stuck in his penis as they are pulled. A female hand appears and masturbates him before he wakes up. The man takes a knife and starts masturbating with it, skinning his penis. He melts a crucifix and pours its contents into a syringe, injecting it into his forehead and presumably dying.

Elsewhere in this town, a man similar to Jesus is dragged into some sort of church and is devoured by three naked women. They force him to eat his own flesh while they do cannibalism. The trio pour wine over him alluding to the body of Christ before they start having sex with his guts, where he is already dead. The tale ends with the man being impaled through the anus by a stick, leaving the screen black afterwards.

