{{Long plot|section|date=July 2023}}
Amy Mayfield, a student at prestigious film school Alpine University, is unsure about her thesis film. After a conversation with security guard Reese Wilson about her experience with a series of murders that had happened on the campus she had previously worked in, she is inspired to make a film about a serial killer murdering in the fashion of urban legends. Meanwhile, fellow student Lisa has a drink with classmate Travis at a bar before her flight. She begins to feel dazed, and is attacked and abducted. She wakes up in a bathtub filled with ice and discovers that her kidney has been removed. Attacked by her abductor, she tries to flee through the window, but is decapitated.

The next day, Amy is preparing the shooting of her thesis film but is deserted by the assigned camera man, Toby, who accuses Amy of stealing his thesis idea. Shooting begins with another camera man, Simon. When Sandra, Amy's actress friend who played a victim in a scene, returns to an empty studio after forgetting her keys, she is killed with a straight razor. Her peers witness her filmed death when the material is smuggled into a sequence of takes of the scene. Amy is disturbed by the footage, but her peers discount it as a piece of a showreel. Sandra's absence is unnoticed, as she was supposed to leave for an audition.

Travis is said to have committed suicide in the campus tower. At his funeral, Graham, the son of a Hollywood director, offers to help Amy with her film; she declines, after which he discloses to her that he is aware of her background{{spaced en dash}}her father was a famous documentarian, a fact she has kept hidden from most of their peers. After the funeral, Amy meets Travis' twin brother, Trevor, who tells her that he believes his brother was murdered. Later, while Amy is recording audio loops of screams for the film, Simon is beaten to death outside, and the audio of his death is inadvertently recorded. While going over the loops, Amy is attacked by the killer, donning a fencing mask. She is chased through the campus but evades him.

Before filming another scene for Amy's film in an empty carnival ride, sophomores Stan and Dirk are attacked and electrocuted while preparing the set. Amy discovers the corpses and is again confronted by the killer. She escapes and informs the police, who attribute the deaths to accidental electrocution. Amy is comforted by Trevor. They begin having sex when Trevor suddenly stabs Amy. She wakes up and realizes that it was only a dream. Amy later notices a light inside the bell tower. She goes there and finds her friend, Vanessa waiting for her. Vanessa presents a note addressed to her from Amy, in which it states that she has romantic feelings for Vanessa. Amy explains that she did not write the note, and fears that both women have been lured there. They are startled by the killer; Amy presses a panic button in the tower, and the killer pursues them. Once at the top, Amy is locked in a closet by the killer, where she finds the corpses of Simon and Sandra. Upon breaking free, she finds Vanessa hanging from the bell. Amy runs out of the tower passing Reese, who was notified of the disturbance via the campus security system.

Trevor tells Amy he has found that all the murder victims worked on Travis' thesis film. After watching some of Travis' film, they suspect Toby, the only person who worked on the film still alive. They kidnap Toby and call in Professor Solomon to an empty film set to present their suspicions. However, Toby reveals that Travis faked Toby's sound credit to help him graduate, admitting that he never went anywhere near Travis' film. Graham happens upon the confrontation, watching from a window. In the confusion, Solomon reveals himself as the killer, attempting to frame Amy and usurp the Hitchcock Award{{spaced en dash}}which includes a large stipend{{spaced en dash}}by presenting Travis' film as his own. A melee ensues in which Amy wrestles his gun from him and holds him at gunpoint. Reese stumbles upon the scene, and a standoff occurs. Solomon leaps at Amy, and she discharges the gun in his abdomen.

At the Hitchcock Awards ceremony, Trevor attends to accept the award on his brother's behalf. As he goes onstage, production assistant Kevin appears as a sniper in the rafters, only to be shot by Reese. The altercation is revealed to be a scene in Amy's new film, ''Urban Legends'', on which Toby and Graham are working on her behalf.

Later, Solomon, now using a wheelchair, is in a mental institution where, after watching Amy's film, is asked by a nurse if he enjoyed the movie. He is wheeled out by the nurse{{spaced en dash}}Brenda Bates, from the original film{{spaced en dash}}who tells him that they have a lot in common.

