The wedding of Will Turner and Elizabeth Swann is interrupted by Lord Cutler Beckett of the East India Trading Company, who arrives at Port Royal with arrest warrants, charging them for setting Captain Jack Sparrow free. Despite also having a warrant, Commodore James Norrington resigned from the Royal Navy and disappeared after losing his ship, the HMS ''Dauntless'', in a hurricane while pursuing Jack.

Meanwhile, aboard the ''Black Pearl'', Jack is visited by Will's father, Bootstrap Bill Turner, and is marked with the Black Spot. Bootstrap is a crewman on the ''Flying Dutchman'', captained by Davy Jones. Jack previously bartered a deal with Jones to raise the ''Pearl'' from the depths, and must now serve aboard the ''Dutchman'' or be dragged into Davy Jones' Locker by the Kraken. Meanwhile, revealing Letters of Marque intended for Jack Sparrow signed by King George, Beckett offers to free Will and Elizabeth in exchange for Will recovering Sparrow's compass.

Will finds Jack and his crew on an island and helps them escape from cannibals. Afterward, Jack visits voodoo priestess Tia Dalma, who helps in finding the Dead Man's Chest, which holds Davy Jones' still-beating heart. Jack intends to find it and free himself from Jones' debt. Will makes a deal with Jack to find the key to the chest in return for Jack's compass but is tricked into servitude with Jones' crew aboard the ''Dutchman'' in Jack's stead. Jones agrees to free Sparrow from servitude if he can provide 99 more souls. Will reunites with his father Bootstrap Bill aboard the ''Dutchman'' and learns that Jones possesses the key. Despite losing a game of Liar's Dice to Jones, Will escapes with the key and climbs aboard the ''Edinburgh Trader''. Jones summons the Kraken and sinks the ship, but Will again escapes.

Meanwhile, Elizabeth's father Governor Swann breaks her out of prison but is captured himself. Elizabeth steals the Letters of Marque from Beckett and makes her way to Tortuga, where she finds both Jack and a drunken Norrington. Jack tricks Elizabeth into using his compass to find Jones' chest. All parties arrive on Isla Cruces, where the chest is buried. A three-way sword fight breaks out between Jack, Will, and Norrington, who all want the heart for their respective goals: Jack wants to call off the Kraken and negate his debt to Jones; Will wants to release his father from the ''Dutchman''; and Norrington wants to regain his life as a Navy officer. In the chaos, Norrington secretly steals the heart and the Letters of Marque before running off, pretending to lure away the ''Dutchman'' crew. Jones attacks the ''Pearl'' with the Kraken, which kills most of the crew and destroys all but one of the ''Pearl''{{'}}s lifeboats. Jack uses the boat to briefly flee the battle but comes back to help wound the Kraken with a net full of gunpowder and rum.

Jack orders the survivors to abandon ship, but Elizabeth realizes the Kraken only wants Jack. Elizabeth tricks Jack by kissing him and chaining him to the mast so that the crew can escape while the Kraken drags Jack and the ''Pearl'' to the depths. Davy Jones, seemingly satisfied that Sparrow's debt is settled, opens the chest to find his heart missing. Norrington gives Beckett the Letters and Jones' heart, reinstating him back into the Navy as well as allowing the East India Trading Company to gain control of Davy Jones, the ''Flying Dutchman'', and the Seven Seas. Jack's crew returns to Tia Dalma, where they agree about the possibility of rescuing Sparrow at World's End. Tia Dalma introduces the captain who will guide them: the resurrected Hector Barbossa.

