In 2006, physician Kate Forster leaves a lake house she has been renting near Chicago and starts a job at a downtown hospital. She leaves a note in the mailbox asking the next tenant to forward her mail and explaining that the painted-on pawprints on the front walkway were there when she moved in as was the box in the attic.

Two years earlier, architect Alex Wyler moves into the same lake house and finds Kate’s letter, which confuses him since he doesn’t see any pawprints. While he restores the house, he befriends a dog who one day runs through paint, leaving the paw prints referenced in Kate’s letter. He writes back, using the mailbox, asking how she knew about the paw prints since nobody had lived in the house prior to him. He also notices that the date on her letters is 2006. 

While having lunch in Daley Plaza on Valentine’s Day, 2006, Kate witnesses a man get hit by a car and tries but fails to save him. Depressed, she returns to the lake house and finds Alex’s letter.  They regularly trade letters, using the mailbox’s red flag to determine when the other has received their message. Eventually, they learn that they are living two years apart, but can communicate through the mailbox almost instantly. Kate asks Alex to find a copy of Jane Austen's ''Persuasion'' that she left at a train station, which he does, and Alex takes Kate on a tour of his favorite architecture in Chicago. Both eventually meet at a birthday party Kate’s then boyfriend, an attorney named Morgan, throws for her. Despite sharing a kiss, Alex does not tell Kate about the letters. 

Alex’s narcissistic father, respected architect Simon Wyler, is hospitalized and dies. Kate finds a book of photos of Simon’s work which hasn’t been published in Alex’s time that includes a photo of Simon and Alex as a little boy at the lake house. Not wanting him to wait until it is published, she leaves it for him in the mailbox, hoping it will comfort him. The gesture convinces Alex and Kate that they should try to meet. Alex makes a reservation at a restaurant two years in advance for him, but the next day for Kate. Kate arrives, but Alex doesn’t. Heartbroken, Kate ends their relationship and stops visiting the lake house to settle for a future with Morgan. Alex places their letters in a box in the house’s attic, like what Kate described in her first letter, and moves in with his brother Henry, also an architect. He tries to move on with his life, but still thinks about Kate. 

On Valentine’s Day, 2006 for Alex, he recalls Kate’s mentioning Daley Plaza and hurries to the lake house to retrieve their letters. Meanwhile, Kate and Morgan meet with Henry, who they hired to design a house they bought together.  When Kate asks about a drawing of the lake house displayed in Henry’s office, Henry says the artist was his brother, Alex. Kate realizes Henry’s brother is the same Alex she was writing to and asks about him, but Henry explains he died on that day two years earlier. Realizing Alex was the man she failed to save at Daley Plaza, Kate rushes to the lake house herself and writes a frantic message to Alex begging him to wait two years and find her at the lake house. Alex does find Kate in Daley Plaza but stops himself from greeting her having received her letter.

At the lake house, Kate is distraught with grief that she failed to save Alex and collapses to her knees at the mailbox. The mailbox’s red flag falls and a truck pulls up. Kate brightens when she sees it is Alex, alive and well. They share a passionate kiss and walk into the lake house.

