Thirty years prior, Team Zenith, led by the Shepard brothers Jack / "Captain Zoom" and Connor / "Concussion", fought to protect the world from various threats until the U.S. military used experimental "Gamma-13" radiation to enhance the Shepards' powers. Zoom became faster and stronger, but Concussion suffered a psychotic break and killed his teammates. Zoom seemingly killed Concussion in turn via a vortex, but lost his powers.

In the present, original Zenith Project scientist Dr. Ed Grant discovers Concussion was trapped in a dimensional rift and is returning to Earth. Zenith military officer General Larraby commissions the formation of a new Team Zenith, recruiting a reluctant Zoom as an instructor and Marsha Holloway, a clumsy psychologist and a fan of the original Team Zenith's comic books.

Following a round of auditions, the Zenith Project recruits teenagers Dylan West and Summer Jones and children Tucker Williams and Cindy Collins, who possess invisibility, psionic powers, self-inflation, and super-strength respectively. Over the course of the team's training, Marsha and the recruits become disappointed by Zoom's bitter and sarcastic personality, Dylan mounts failed escape attempts, and Tucker struggles with self-esteem issues and controlling his powers. After the team confront Zoom over his failings, they reconcile and slowly improve their abilities.

Hours before Concussion's return, Zoom helps Dylan unlock a new ability dubbed "mindsight", which he uses to pinpoint where Concussion will emerge and learn the military intends to expose the new Team Zenith to Gamma-13 and use them as a distraction so they can test new weaponry on Concussion. A horrified Zoom asks Marsha to help him rescue the children and travel to Concussion's location, during which she reveals her ability to produce super-breath. Upon arriving, Zoom resolves to face Concussion alone, but Marsha and Team Zenith refuse to abandon him.

When Concussion returns, Larraby fires a neutralizing net at him, but the former blasts it away towards Cindy. Fearing for her safety, Zoom's powers return, allowing him to save her before he uses his speed and Gamma-13 to recreate the vortex while Team Zenith and Marsha guide Concussion into it. After Grant reveals he can save Concussion, Zoom closes the vortex, with the subsequent energy vacuum draining the Shepards' Gamma-13, restoring their original powers and curing Concussion. 

Three months later, Team Zenith have returned to their normal lives while continuing to work with Zoom.

