After a meeting between the Torricelli Sicilian Mafia crime family and black market dealers, Massimo Torricelli watches a beautiful woman named Laura Biel on a beach. Suddenly, the dealers shoot Massimo and his father; Massimo survives while his father dies from his injuries.

Five years later, Massimo is the leader of the Torricelli crime family. In Warsaw, Laura is unhappy in her relationship with her boyfriend, Martin. Laura celebrates her birthday in Italy with Martin, where she gets kidnapped by Massimo.

At his villa, Massimo reveals to Laura who he is and his backstory. He tells her that when he was injured, all he could think about was her. After searching for years and finally spotting her, he kidnapped her, intending to keep her as a prisoner for 365 days in the hopes that she will fall in love with him. He also promises her that he will not touch her intimately without her consent even while he is physically and sexually aggressive towards her.

As they spend time together, Laura teases him and refuses to have sex with him. Later, Massimo cuffs her to the bed and makes Laura watch him receive oral sex from another woman. Afterward, he claims he is going to rape her but changes his mind and orders her to get dressed for a club.

At the club, Laura flirts with a man from a rival mafia family, who gropes her. Massimo draws his weapons and Laura is taken out of the club. The following morning, she awakens on a yacht, where Massimo confesses that he shot the man's hand and incited a gang war between the two families. Laura attempts to apologize, but Massimo blames her for the incident. They argue and Laura falls into the water. Massimo jumps in to save her. When she regains consciousness, he admits he was scared she might not make it and does not want to lose her. Laura realizes that she has fallen in love with Massimo. The two have sex.
  
Later that evening, Massimo and Laura attend a masquerade ball, where a woman named Anna threatens Laura. Massimo reveals that he dated Anna, but told her that he would leave if he found Laura, and did so when he recognized Laura at the airport.

After the ball, Massimo and Laura have sex again. He tells her he is sending her to visit her loved ones in Warsaw and promises to join her after finishing up business. He then tells her he loves her.

On the car ride to the airport, Domenico, another one of Massimo's mafiosos, tried to reassure a nervous Laura that Anna won't hurt her but gets a phone call, tells Laura to wait in Warsaw, and rushes away.

In Warsaw, Laura waits for Massimo for days with no contact. She reconnects with her best friend Olga and they go clubbing. She runs into Martin, who says he has been looking for her. He attempts to convince her to reconcile and follows her back to her apartment, where Massimo is unexpectedly waiting. Martin leaves and Laura and Massimo have sex. When Laura opens his shirt, she discovers his wounds from the ongoing conflict. The following morning, Massimo proposes and she accepts. However, she asks him to keep his "occupation" a secret from her parents.

Back in Italy, Mario informs Massimo of rising tensions. Laura mentions feeling unwell but brushes off seeing a doctor. They discuss their upcoming wedding that her family is not allowed to attend, as she does not want them to discover what Massimo does. However, Massimo allows Olga to come as Laura's bridesmaid. When Olga visits, Laura reveals she is pregnant. Olga urges her to tell Massimo about the pregnancy. Meanwhile, Massimo‘s associate Mario receives a phone call from a Torricelli informant that the rival mafia family is about to kill Laura. Laura's car enters a tunnel but does not come out the other side. Mario rushes to find Massimo just as Laura's call drops. Realizing the implications, Massimo breaks down.

