Veera Raghavan is a RAW field agent stationed in Pakistan to capture the terrorist, Umar Farooq. While Veera successfully manages to do so, a missile shot by him to prevent Farooq's escape injures and kills a civilian child, traumatising Veera. He quits the agency and returns to Chennai. 11 months later, Veera is suffering from PTSD and traumatic memories of the child. At the insistence of his psychiatrist, he attends a wedding, where he meets Preethi; they fall for each other. Preethi convinces him to join her failing security service company, "Dominic & Soldiers".

Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu government receives intel that terrorists are planning a massive terror attack in Chennai. Along with Preethi and her boss, Dominic Irudhayaraj, Veera visits the agency's last client, the East Coast Mall, where he observes a series of suspicious activities and deduces that someone else has taken over the mall. Later, Umar Farooq's brother, Umar Saif, and his sleeper cells open fire and hijack the mall, thus proving Veera's suspicions. Veera, Preethi, Dominic, and a couple of other people hide unharmed inside an unopened restaurant. Led by Deputy National Security Advisor Althaf Hussain, the government tries to negotiate with the terrorists, who demand the release of Farooq.

Althaf learns that Veera is also trapped inside the mall and manages to establish contact with him, where he tries to convince him to help them. Though initially hesitant, Veera gets convinced when he realises that the terrorists are there for initiating Farooq's release. He kills one of the terrorist, captures another alive, and brings him to their hideout. Veera manages to infiltrate the terrorists, under disguise, and eliminates a few of them. The Home Minister, who is in league with Saif, gets them to stage the execution of his wife and daughter, Aparna, inside the mall on live television. Enraged about the government's forceful decision to release Farooq, Veera retaliates and kidnaps the Home Minister's wife and Aparna, by pretending to be a Bangladeshi militant to confuse the terrorists and threatens to kill them if Farooq is released.

Sensing his impending defeat, Saif seemingly gives up, only to slip into the crowd, pretending to be a hostage. He soon figures out Veera's real identity from Dominic, which forces him and his sleeper cells to give up and capture all of them. With the help of Aparna, Veera manages to escape and eliminate Saif and the other terrorists while ensuring that the hostages flee to safety. The police arrest the Home Minister for his involvement in the hijack of the mall. Despite all the negotiations, the government releases Farooq from prison and drops him at the India–Pakistan border. A few months later, Veera recaptures Farooq in Pakistan and brings him back to India after surviving a long air chase. Following the successful operation, Veera, Preethi, Dominic and the rest of his crew celebrate their escapades in Goa.

