America Chavez and a version of Stephen Strange are chased by a demon in the space between universes while searching for the ''Book of Vishanti''. Strange is killed and Chavez accidentally creates a portal that transports herself and Strange's corpse to Earth-616,{{efn|The film gives the name Earth-616 to the main reality depicted in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.<ref name="UniverseDesignations" />}} where that universe's version of Stephen Strange rescues Chavez from another demon{{efn|Identified off-screen as Gargantos<ref name="GargantosName" />}} with help from Wong, the Sorcerer Supreme. Chavez explains that the beings are hunting her because she has the power to travel through the multiverse.

Recognizing witchcraft runes on the demon, Strange consults Wanda Maximoff but realizes that she is responsible for the attacks. After acquiring the ''Darkhold'' and becoming the Scarlet Witch, Wanda believes that taking Chavez's powers and traveling through the multiverse will allow her to reunite with Billy and Tommy, the children she created during her time in Westview.{{efn|As depicted in the television miniseries ''WandaVision'' (2021)<ref name="RSWVOralHistory" />}} When Strange refuses to surrender Chavez, Wanda attacks Kamar-Taj and kills many sorcerers. Chavez accidentally transports herself and Strange to Earth-838. Wanda uses the ''Darkhold'' to "dreamwalk", taking control of her Earth-838 counterpart who lives a suburban life with her own Billy and Tommy. After a surviving sorceress sacrifices herself to destroy the ''Darkhold'' and break the dreamwalk, an enraged Wanda forces Wong to lead her to Mount Wundagore, the source of the ''Darkhold''{{'s}} power, to reestablish the dreamwalk.

While searching for help, Strange and Chavez are apprehended by Earth-838's Sorcerer Supreme, Karl Mordo, and brought before the Illuminati, a group consisting of Mordo, Peggy Carter, Blackagar Boltagon, Maria Rambeau, Reed Richards, and Charles Xavier. They explain that through reckless use of their universe's ''Darkhold'' in an attempt to defeat Thanos, Earth-838's Strange triggered a universe-destroying "incursion". After defeating Thanos, the Illuminati executed their Strange to prevent him from causing more harm. Mordo believes that Earth-616's Strange is similarly dangerous, but Wanda reestablishes her dreamwalk at Mount Wundagore and arrives in her Earth-838 counterpart's body before the Illuminati can pass judgment. She brutally kills all the Illuminati except Mordo, whom Strange subdues before fleeing with Chavez. The two escape with help from the Earth-838 version of Strange's ex-fiancé, Christine Palmer, a scientist working with the Illuminati.

Strange, Chavez, and Palmer enter the space between universes to find the ''Book of Vishanti'', which is the antithesis of the ''Darkhold'', but Wanda appears and destroys it. She then takes over Chavez's mind and uses her powers to send Strange and Palmer to an incursion-destroyed universe. Strange defeats the destroyed universe's Strange, who has been corrupted by his ''Darkhold'', and then uses that ''Darkhold'' to dreamwalk into the body of his deceased counterpart on Earth-616. With Wong's help, Strange saves Chavez from Wanda and encourages Chavez to use her abilities. Chavez transports Wanda to Earth-838, where she sees Billy and Tommy recoil from her in fear while crying for their real mother. Realizing the error of her ways, Wanda relents and uses her powers to bring down Mount Wundagore, simultaneously destroying all copies of the ''Darkhold'' throughout the multiverse and sacrificing herself in the process. Chavez returns Strange and Palmer to their respective universes.

Sometime later, Kamar-Taj is under repair and the surviving sorcerers, joined by Chavez, continue training. Strange develops a third eye as a result of using the ''Darkhold'' and dreamwalking into a corpse. In a mid-credits scene, Strange is approached by a sorceress{{efn|Identified off-screen as Clea<ref name="CleaTheron" />}} who warns him that his actions have triggered an incursion that he must help fix. Strange follows her into the Dark Dimension.

