Sonic lives with the Wachowskis after defeating Dr. Robotnik,{{efn|As depicted in ''Sonic the Hedgehog'' (2020)}} and attempts to help the public as a vigilante hero with little success due to his recklessness. Tom advises Sonic to remain patient for the day his powers will be needed before he and Maddie depart for Rachel's wedding in Hawaii.

While staying at home, Sonic is attacked by Robotnik, who has escaped from the mushroom planet with the help of a powerful anthropomorphic echidna, Knuckles. Knuckles demands the location of the legendary Master Emerald, an ancient relic that grants its user ultimate power and the ability to change reality to their will so he can bring honor to his ancestors.

Sonic is rescued by Miles "Tails" Prower, an anthropomorphic two-tailed fox who idolizes him and comes to warn him about Knuckles. Sonic convinces Tails to help him find the Master Emerald while Robotnik reunites with his assistant, Agent Stone, and, scheming to steal the emerald, offers to help Knuckles. Meanwhile, Sonic and Tails follow clues to a Siberian cave on a map that Sonic's guardian, Longclaw, gave to him before sending him to Earth, where they find a compass within a temple. Knuckles and Robotnik track them and chase Sonic and Tails down a mountain. Knuckles reveals that he lost his father and his whole tribe the same day Sonic lost Longclaw. Despite this brief moment of sympathy, Knuckles and Robotnik steal the compass, though Knuckles begins to question Robotnik's sense of loyalty and honor when he mocks Sonic for choosing to save an injured and unconscious Tails instead of the compass before causing an avalanche upon them.

Tom saves Sonic and Tails by using a ring to teleport them to the wedding. Rachel's fiancé Randall and his wedding guests reveal themselves as undercover agents of the Guardian Units of Nations (G.U.N.) and arrest Sonic, Tails, and Tom, who are then saved by Maddie and a vengeful Rachel, who reconciles with Randall after he reveals that he still has feelings for her. Meanwhile, Knuckles and Robotnik find an underwater temple containing the Master Emerald.

Blaming himself for Tails's injuries, Sonic decides to face Knuckles and Robotnik alone and goes to the temple, where he fights with Knuckles to keep him from taking the Master Emerald. Seeing this as an opportunity, Robotnik uses the distraction to seize and fuse himself with the emerald, which explodes and sinks the temple into the water. With no use left for Knuckles, Robotnik betrays him and leaves him, along with Sonic, behind. Working together, Sonic and Knuckles are able to escape just as Tails, who has regained consciousness and recovered from his injuries, rescues them in a biplane.

In Green Hills, Robotnik uses his new abilities to create a giant robot resembling himself. Sonic, Tails, and Knuckles work together to fight the robot and its accompanying drones and reclaim the Master Emerald; however, it breaks, splitting into the 7 Chaos Emeralds. Tom and Maddie save Sonic, who uses the Chaos Emeralds to transform into Super Sonic. He destroys the robot before dispersing the Emeralds and reverting back to normal. In the aftermath, Robotnik is missing, and Knuckles fixes the Master Emerald from the remaining shards before making a pact with Sonic and Tails to protect it from evil, and the three resume an idyllic life with the Wachowskis.


