Teddy Jackson is a struggling fitness entrepreneur in Yorktown, Virginia who is fired from his job at a local gym for giving ad brochures without the gym's address. He decides not to tell his wife Lori and takes her to Onancock for her birthday. Leaving her at a spa, Teddy arrives at the wrong cabin, where a man named Coughlin is being held hostage. Mistaken for "the Man from Toronto", a mysterious assassin with a talent for brutal interrogation, the clueless Teddy manages to intimidate Coughlin into giving up a code. The cabin is raided by the FBI, who convince Teddy to pose as the Man from Toronto to help capture would-be Venezuelan dictator Colonel Marin in exchange for the FBI paying off his overdue mortgage. 

Much to Teddy's jealousy, an agent is assigned to accompany Lori and her friend Anne on a day of luxury in Washington, D.C., telling them the trip has been provided by Teddy's job. As Toronto, Teddy meets Marin's wife Daniela, who flies him to San Juan, Puerto Rico with orders to identify Green, Coughlin's partner, and bring him to the Colonel in D.C. En route, Teddy is ambushed by the Man from Toronto, whose real name is Randy. Planning to complete the $2 million contract by maintaining the ruse that Teddy is Toronto, Randy informs his Handler, who sends another assassin, the Man from Miami. Randy and Teddy arrive at a tech conference where Marin's men have captured Green’s research team. Randy guides Teddy through interrogating the hostages; inadvertently cutting one of the men, Teddy vomits all over him and another hostage, who admits he is Green and Randy kills Marin's guards.

Green explains that he and Coughlin worked for DARPA developing a seismic bomb with a dual failsafe — Coughlin's code and Green's thumbprint — but realized they were working on behalf of Marin, who plans to use the weapon to assassinate the President of Venezuela during a visit to D.C. Teddy leaves the room while Randy cuts off Green's thumb and they are attacked by the Man from Miami, but manage to subdue him. They return to D.C. to attend Lori's birthday dinner, where Randy finds himself connecting with Anne. Miami steals the thumb, which he and the Handler deliver to Marin. Teddy and Randy crash the deal and the FBI arrives; Randy flees with the $2 million, while Miami and the Handler escape. The FBI discover that the thumb actually belonged to Marin's henchman as Randy chose not to let Marin arm the weapon. Teddy returns home to find Lori has gone to stay with her mother, having learned that he lost his job and lied to her. 

Racing to stop her, Teddy is nearly killed by Miami, but Randy intervenes. They fight off several other assassins summoned by the Handler, who arrives demanding the money. She pursues them into a warehouse, where Teddy unintentionally drops her into a vat of boiling oil, frying her alive. Teddy is confronted by a final assassin, the Man from Tokyo, but Randy dispatches him with "Debora", his beloved 1969 Dodge Charger. Taking the car, Teddy reconciles with Lori at the train station, but parks on the tracks, and the car is destroyed by a train. A year later, Randy has followed through on his dream of opening his own restaurant, and is in a relationship with Anne. Teddy declares Randy as his partner in his new online gym, presenting him with a small payment toward replacing Debora, but Randy later calls Teddy during a livestream workout to threaten him.

