In Greenwich, Connecticut, Jason Lightstone and his estranged wife Linda take their daughter Trudy to his mother Gertrude's mansion for a Christmas gathering. They overhear Trudy's wish for family unity through an old walkie-talkie. Other family members at the gathering are Jason's sister Alva, her boyfriend Morgan Steel, and her son Bert. Meanwhile, Santa Claus arrives at the estate, just as a group of mercenaries, led by "Mr. Scrooge," raid the house with some of them having posed as caterers and take the family hostage after killing the staff.

Discovered by the mercenary Tinsel, Santa's reindeer are frightened off as Santa kills Tinsel by causing him to be impaled by an icicle. Stranded, he decides to rescue Trudy and her family from Scrooge, who wants the mansion's $300 million. After killing the mercenary Frosty, Santa takes his radio and finds Trudy's channel as well as the mercenaries on his naughty list. When her walkie-talkie is found, Jason denies Santa's existence, making Trudy hide in the attic. Santa reassures her over the radio, revealing his ancient Viking past. Meanwhile, Scrooge's second-in-command Krampus forces the family to give gifts and Gertrude is surprised by a card from Jason.

Wounded Santa is captured by Scrooge, who hates Christmas. Recognizing their real identities, Santa convinces henchmen Gingerbread and Candy Cane of his authenticity and escapes magically, although his magic sack is burned. Gertrude's "kill squad," led by Commander Thorp, arrives and kills Morgan upon revealing their allegiance to Scrooge. Discovering an empty vault, Scrooge threatens Linda. Jason admits he stole the money, hidden in an outdoor nativity, and planned to flee with his family. Gertrude forgives him, revealing this as a Lightstone family rite of passage and naming him her heir.

In a shed, Santa finds a sledgehammer and eliminates the kill squad and Techie. Trudy sets up ''Home Alone''-inspired traps, leading to Gingerbread's death. Santa kills Candy Cane before she can shoot Trudy. Alva, Linda, and Bert thwart Scrooge's order to kill hostages by killing Krampus and Sugarplum. Scrooge and Thorp escape into the woods with Gertrude and the money, pursued by Santa who kills Peppermint. Linda kills Jingle and Trudy witnesses her parents' reunion. Santa and Scrooge fight in a cabin; as they grapple, Santa magically flies up the chimney, mangling Scrooge’s body and killing him.

Thorp fatally shoots Santa but is killed by Gertrude. Despite using burnt money for warmth, Santa appears to die. Trudy rallies her family to affirm their belief in Santa, reviving him. Confused by the magic but renewed in faith, Santa receives his returning reindeer, a note from Mrs. Claus, and a new gift sack. He bids Trudy farewell and continues his gift deliveries.

In a mid-credits scene, Bert vlogs next to a dead mercenary, telling his viewers that Santa is real and warning them to behave during Christmas.

