In the prologue, a Cambodian girl leaves her village for Bangkok. Upon arriving, she is drugged, kidnapped and sold into the "skin trade" (human trafficking).

In Newark, New Jersey, Nick Cassidy, a Newark Police Department detective, discovers that Viktor Dragovic, a Serbian mobster, is in New Jersey. Meanwhile, in Bangkok, Detective Tony Vitayakul attempts to buy a Thai girl from a group of human traffickers. When his cover is blown, he subdues the traffickers and frees the girl. He collects information regarding the ship used to transport trafficked girls, its destination, and that Dragovic will be there to receive the shipment.

Cassidy and his superior officer, Captain Costello, brief a group of police officers on Dragovic, revealing he is a major player in human trafficking worldwide. As the ship carrying Dragovic's container approaches the US, Cassidy and his men prepare to intercept it at the dock. When the ship arrives, Dragovic discovers the trafficked women have died during the transport. The ship's captain is held responsible, tortured and shot in the head. A shootout erupts as the police move in. Cassidy chases Dragovic and his youngest son Andre. He fatally shoots Andre in self-defense and Dragovic is arrested. While in custody, Dragovic arranges to have Cassidy's family murdered and his house blown up. Cassidy's wife and daughter are killed but Cassidy survives, despite being shot in the back.

Captain Costello and Reed, an FBI agent, visit Cassidy in the hospital. They tell him Dragovic fled the US after being bailed. After they leave, Cassidy steals clothing and an opiate drug before leaving the hospital unnoticed. He gets his guns and goes to the restaurant of Dragovic's attorney. After forcing the attorney to reveal Dragovic's whereabouts, Cassidy shoots him and blows up the restaurant.

In Cambodia, Senator Khat warns Dragovic that unless he leaves the country immediately, he will be arrested and extradited to the US. Dragovic blackmails the Senator into giving him two weeks to put his affairs in order and flee.

Cassidy travels to Thailand in pursuit of Dragovic. Believing that Cassidy has experienced a nervous breakdown, the US authorities have sent Reed to detain him. Tony and his partner Nung are ordered to assist with the arrest. At Suvarnabhumi Airport, Cassidy runs away from the police. Reed, who has been bribed by Dragovic, kills Nung and blames Cassidy for the murder. Vitayakul pursues Cassidy through the streets but fails to capture him. Cassidy reaches a nightclub in Poipet. After torturing one of Dragovic's men, he discovers the location of Dragovic's current operations. Vitayakul and Reed arrive at the nightclub to arrest Cassidy. After fighting with Vitayakul, an injured Cassidy escapes again. Meanwhile, Reed uses the timing of a call on Vitayakul's cell phone to discover an informant: Vitayakul's girlfriend Min. While Cassidy is attempting to locate Janko, Dragovic's illegitimate son, who oversees Dragovic's human trafficking business in Southeast Asia, a shootout erupts between Cassidy and Janko's men. Janko flees the warehouse but is killed by Ivan and Goran Dragovic, his half-brothers, on behalf of their father. Vitayakul arrives to kill Cassidy, but after learning the truth about his partner's death, he fights and kills Reed instead. Janko reveals his father's location before dying.

The next day, Cassidy and Vitayakul team up and storm Dragovic's compound. Ivan is holding Min at gunpoint, but Vitayakul shoots him. Cassidy destroys a vehicle with a rocket launcher. As a result, Dragovic's helicopter leaves without him. During a shootout between the two detectives and Dragovic's men, Goran is killed in a hand-to-hand fight with Vitayakul. After that, Cassidy fights with Dragovic, ultimately stabbing him in the chest, despite Dragovic commandeering a second helicopter. Dragovic then tells Cassidy that his daughter Sofia was not killed, but instead sold into the human trafficking trade. He fails to learn the whereabouts of his daughter from the dying Dragovic.

In the aftermath, Cassidy says goodbye to Vitayakul and Min. He gives them a picture of Sofia and asks them to keep it until he finds her. He then sets out in search of his daughter on his own.

