Jack Carter, a mob enforcer living in Las Vegas, returns home to Seattle after hearing that his brother, Ritchie, was killed in a drunk driving crash. His partner, Con McCarty, covers for him with his mob boss, Fletcher – whose girlfriend Audrey is having an affair with Jack.

At his brother's funeral, Jack meets his niece, Doreen, and Eddie, a friend and co-worker of Ritchie. Both tell Jack that Ritchie rarely drank and would never have driven while intoxicated; Eddie also says Ritchie would not be involved in any illicit activities. He also talks to a woman, Geraldine, who is evasive and cryptic about her relationship to Ritchie. At the wake, Jack continues questioning mourners and well-wishers about what happened to his brother, drawing the ire of Ritchie's widow, Gloria.

He confronts the owner of the club Ritchie managed, loan shark Cliff Brumby. Brumby doesn't believe Ritchie was murdered, but tells Jack that Ritchie was having an affair with Geraldine, an associate of local boss Cyrus Paice.

Jack questions Paice but doesn't get any useful information. He follows Paice and is led to Jeremy Kinnear, a wealthy computer mogul who hired Paice to discreetly procure beautiful women for him at parties so he can present a "professional" and squeaky-clean image. However, Paice is now blackmailing Kinnear into running Paice's pornographic websites. Unable to get any straight answers, Jack carefully examines surveillance tapes from Brumby's club.

He discovers that Paice produces amateur porn movies using young women drugged and raped by Eddie and Geraldine; one video shows Doreen as one of the victims. Geraldine found out Doreen was Ritchie's daughter and gave the video disc to Ritchie, but Ritchie was murdered and set up to look like an accident before he could take it to the police.

Audrey breaks up with Jack, who tells Fletcher that he is done with Vegas; McCarty and another gangster are sent to confront Jack, who manages to evade them. Jack talks with Doreen about what happened in the video, comforting her and telling her she is a good person.

Jack sets out on a path of vengeance. Geraldine calls Jack, apologizing for what happened to Doreen and says that Paice is coming to kill her; Jack arrives to find her body. He then heads to Eddie's apartment to interrogate him. Eddie tells Jack that Paice is at Kinnear's; Jack throws him off the balcony to his death. McCarty tracks Jack to Eddie's apartment, beginning a car chase; McCarty is forced off the road, crashing violently and presumably killing the mobsters. At Kinnear's house, Jack confronts Paice, who claims Kinnear is the man behind Ritchie's murder. Jack attempts to hit Paice from behind, but Paice sees him in a reflection and ducks. Paice then pummels him to the ground while commenting that Ritchie put up more of a fight than he did, thereby admitting that he was involved in his brother's death. Paice walks away and joins some women on the busy dance floor.

Bloodied, Jack gets up and follows Paice to the dance floor, telling him he should finish what he starts. Paice agrees; he tries to sucker punch Jack, but Jack floors him with one punch before brutally beating Paice to death. Jack pulls his pistol and points it directly at Paice's face.

Jack confronts Kinnear, who says that he only told Paice to get the disc back from Ritchie, not kill him, and that Paice and Brumby committed the murder; Jack lets Kinnear live.

In a car park, Jack finds Brumby attempting to steal the disc from Jack's car. Brumby admits involvement in the murder, warning Jack that killing him will force him to run for the rest of his life. As Brumby walks away, Jack calls out to him. Brumby won't turn around and Jack shoots him in the back.

Having settled the score for his brother, a now shaven Jack meets Doreen one last time at Ritchie's grave and explains that he has to go away for a while. After reminding her that she is special, they say their goodbyes. Jack gets into his car and opens a map that leads to Las Vegas.

