In his office in Dallas, FBI Agent Wesley Doyle is visited by Fenton Meiks, who claims his brother Adam is the culprit in the "God's Hand" serial killings. Fenton says Adam has committed suicide, prompting Fenton to fulfill a promise to bury his brother in a public rose garden in their hometown of Thurman, Texas. He begins to talk about his childhood and suggests the bodies of the God's Hand victims are buried in that garden.

While children in the summer of 1979, their father told them he had been visited by an angel and tasked by God with "destroying" demons disguised as humans; a mission which must be kept secret. Their father "is led" to 3 tools: an axe, gloves and a pipe; he also receives a list of names from the angel. He incapacitates a woman with the pipe and brings her home. While laying his hand on her, he claims to see a vision of her evil, kills her with the axe and makes the boys help him bury her body in the rose garden. Horrified, Fenton believes his father insane; Adam claims to see the visions and supports their father.

After hearing this, Doyle drives Fenton to Thurman. On the way, Doyle says his mother had been murdered by someone that was never caught. Fenton then explains how they took the second victim (a supposed child molester) in broad daylight, with his father insisting God would blind any witnesses. One night, his father tells him he prayed for the angel to visit Fenton (for his lack of faith), but the angel instead visited him and told him something bad about Fenton. He makes Fenton dig a hole. Fenton abandons all faith in God. Their father makes the hole into a cellar and moves the shed on top of it.

During his father's third abduction, Fenton escapes from the cellar and runs to the sheriff who takes him back home. Noticing Fenton's fear, the sheriff looks in the cellar, but finds it empty. As he leaves, their father kills him with the axe, angry with Fenton for forcing him to murder an innocent man. After burying the body in the garden, Fenton's father says the angel thinks Fenton is a demon. To save him and encourage him to have faith, he locks Fenton in the cellar for over a week. Fenton claims to have been enlightened, and his father releases him to carry out the next killing.

Fenton cooperates with his father to take the next victim but alerts him just before his father hits the man with the pipe, nearly blowing the scheme. In the cellar, his father gives Fenton the axe and tells him to destroy the demon. Fenton kills his father instead. Before dying, their father whispers something to Adam. Fenton tries to release the abducted man, who Adam kills with the axe. While burying the two men, Fenton makes Adam promise to bury him in the garden if Adam ever "destroys" him.

Doyle is puzzled by his phrasing, since he said Adam killed himself. "Fenton" then reveals himself to be Adam. Adam killed Fenton, who had grown up to become the actual God's Hand serial killer, a man responsible for several unrelated murders not committed by Adam "destroying" demons. Doyle is horrified to see the number of graves in the garden. Adam did in fact share his father's visions, and their victims were actual demons. Doyle turns out to have murdered his own mother and is on Adam's list. Adam kills him with the axe. 

After Doyle's disappearance, Agent Griffin Hull, who has previously met with Adam, cannot seem to remember his face. The security tapes are also inexplicably obscured by static whenever Adam is in view. The FBI raid Fenton's house, finding the God's Hand list and Doyle's badge, which corroborate Fenton being the killer. At Thurman, Agent Hull visits Adam, who is actually the county sheriff, to tell him Fenton was the killer. Upon shaking his hand, Adam tells Hull he is a good man. As Agent Hull leaves, Adam's pregnant wife asks if everything is ok; Adam tells her that everything is fine and God's will has been done.

