A decade after tracking down serial killer Jame Gumb,{{efn|As depicted in ''The Silence of the Lambs'' (1991).}} FBI Special Agent Clarice Starling is blamed for a botched drug raid that resulted in the deaths of five people. Starling is contacted by Mason Verger, the only surviving victim of cannibalistic serial killer Hannibal Lecter, who has been missing since escaping custody. A wealthy child molester, Verger was paralyzed and disfigured by Lecter and has been pursuing an elaborate scheme to capture, torture, and kill Lecter ever since. Using his wealth and political influence, Verger has Starling reassigned to Lecter's case, hoping her involvement will draw Lecter out.

After learning of Starling's disgrace, Lecter sends her a letter. A perfume expert identifies the fragrance on the letter: skin cream with ingredients only available to a few shops in the world. In Florence, Chief Inspector Rinaldo Pazzi questions Lecter about a case. Lecter is now masquerading as Dr. Fell, a library assistant curator and caretaker.

Recognizing Lecter from the police surveillance tape Starling requested, Pazzi learns of Verger's $3 million personal bounty on Lecter. Seeking the money, he attempts to capture Lecter alone. Lecter severs the femoral artery of the pickpocket Pazzi recruited, then baits Pazzi into a room of the Palazzo Vecchio, disembowels him, and hangs him from the balcony. He also kills a Verger henchman.

Verger bribes Justice Department official Paul Krendler to accuse Starling of not disclosing a note from Lecter, leading to her suspension. Lecter gets Starling to come to Union Station while speaking with her through mobile phones. Verger's men, having trailed Starling, capture and bring Lecter to Verger. Verger intends to feed Lecter alive to a herd of mutated wild boars bred for this purpose. Starling infiltrates Verger's estate and frees Lecter but is shot by a guard. The boars devour the two guards but ignore Lecter. Verger orders his physician Cordell to shoot Lecter but Cordell shoves his hated boss into the pen instead as Lecter offers to take the blame. Lecter then carries an unconscious Starling away while Verger is eaten alive by his own boars.

Lecter treats Starling's wound at Krendler's secluded lake house before drugging Krendler. Starling, disoriented by morphine and wearing a cocktail dress Lecter put on her, awakens to find Krendler seated at the table for an elegant dinner. She watches in horror as Lecter opens Krendler's skull, removes part of his brain, sautés it, and feeds Krendler's own brain to him. Starling tries to attack Lecter, but he overpowers and kisses her. She uses the distraction to handcuff his wrist to hers. Hearing the police, Lecter raises a cleaver over her hand. After, Starling surrenders to the FBI with her hands intact.

On a flight, Lecter, his arm bandaged in a sling, shares Krendler's cooked brain with a curious boy watching him eat, saying it is important "always to try new things".

