Stone Alexander is a six-year-old boy whose mother has died giving birth to his younger brother, David. During a party at his influential father's home, Stone is left alone with David, who is in his crib. As Stone stares into the fireplace, a fiery force engulfs the boy, possessing him. Stone attempts to burn his baby brother, but David is saved by their nanny. Their father, Daniel (David Hedison), sends Stone away to a military academy in Italy for his education, under the guidance of General Francini (Franco Nero).

Not long after arriving at the academy, he is drawn to a church where he meets his demonic Guardian (Udo Kier) (who later becomes Stone's false prophet), and participates in a black mass ceremony. Years pass, and although Stone is periodically abused by some of his classmates, he eventually earns their respect, becoming the top student in his class. After graduating, Stone meets his younger brother David (Chad Michael Murray), who is now a teenager. Soon after graduation, Stone marries his Italian girlfriend, Gabriella, the daughter of General Francini. The General was initially against their marriage, but Stone summons two smoke-like demons to intimidate the General into giving in.

Eventually, Stone becomes President of the European Union<ref group=note>, preceded by Stone accepting a lesser position with the European Union in 1976. This is an anachronism, as the European Union was not established until 17 years later (although its forerunner, the European Communities, did exist at that time).</ref> He uses his seat of power to dissolve the United Nations and create a world government called the World Union. To consolidate his power, Stone pressures the President of the United States Richard Benson (R. Lee Ermey) to join his global community.<ref group=note>In the movie's dialogue, the United States is sometimes equated with "the North American Zone"; however, a stylized world map appears to show all of North America as a single zone, and Mexico is portrayed in the film as a country distinct from the United States.</ref> Stone summons Benson to meet with him in Rome. Prior to departing for Italy, President Benson orders the U.S. Navy's Sixth Fleet to take up position off of the coast of Italy in the event of an emergency.

Accompanying the president on his flight to Italy is David Alexander (Michael Biehn), who is now the Vice President of the United States, and the president's military aide, U.S. Marine Colonel Rick Howard (Gil Colon). During an informal meeting on Air Force One, David and Col. Howard warn the president to keep his distance from Stone, due to a CIA report, which indicates that over 200 people who had opposed Stone in the past had died under questionable circumstances after close contact. Unfortunately, Benson fails to grasp just how ruthless Stone really is; Stone kills him with a supernaturally induced heart attack. David is sworn in as the new President at the hour of President Benson's death.

Much to Stone's disappointment, his brother also refuses to join his New World Order. Secretary of State Breckenridge (Jim Metzler) however, wants the United States to join the global community aligned with Stone. After failing to convince David to fall in line with the World Union, he publicizes a doctored video of David murdering his father. In reality, it was Stone who killed him.

Breckenridge orders the FBI to arrest the president. After a heated exchange of gunfire between the Secret Service detail and the FBI agents, the president escapes by helicopter to Norfolk Naval Base, where the U.S. Navy brass provides him with transport to the Sixth Fleet on an amphibious assault ship. After arriving, David orders a special forces raid on Stone's castle headquarters in Rome; however, he discovers that Stone is already in Israel. David finds Gabriella (Diane Venora) in the dungeon, confined there by the Guardian after she witnessed some of Stone's demonic powers. She dies in David's arms after professing her love. Following the raid, Colonel Howard receives word that Breckenridge is sending U.S. troops to Israel to join Stone's military coalition, which are on the plains of Megiddo planning a strike on Jerusalem.

Following the raid in Rome, David and Colonel Howard move quietly to join U.S. forces already in Israel. Unknown to Stone, the Mexicans, Chinese, and Americans are really there to destroy Stone and his army. David attempts to kill Stone himself but is soon captured.

Later, Chinese tanks open fire upon his European troops from one side while U.S. and Mexican forces attack from the other. Shortly afterwards, Stone's troops are hit by air strikes as well. Taken completely by surprise, and with his forces being quickly overrun, Stone instructs all his soldiers to fight to the death. After overrunning Stone's armored and artillery positions, the Mexican tanks charge headlong, targeting the enemy headquarters.

Stone and his officers are swallowed in a huge fireball as tank shells rain in. David barely manages to break free and jump away before the headquarters explodes behind him.  David is stunned as Stone walks out of the ashes unharmed. He then morphs into a massive creature with some ram's horns and huge leather wings. David realizes in horror that the creature is the incarnation of the devil himself. After fatally wounding David, Stone/Satan summons up his dark brethren as reinforcements and revives his dead army. In a full display of his supernatural powers, he even darkens the sun, plunging the whole battlefield into darkness.

The reinforcements soon outnumber and overrun the Mexican, Chinese, and American forces. In triumph, Stone/Satan, celebrates as he cries out loudly that he is Lord. At this boast, a bright white light lances down into the ruins of the headquarters and begins dropping meteors of light upon the battlefield. All of Stone's soldiers are killed, while all of the allied survivors remain untouched, and are freed from their bonds. Stone's former Guardian is dismayed at Stone/Satan's defeat and tries to run from the battlefield. A globe of light chases him and quickly impales him with swords of pure light, causing him to be vaporized. Stone/Satan himself is driven to his knees and forced to admit that Jesus Christ is the one true Lord. The light then pulverizes the ground beneath him, dropping Stone/Satan (who is trying in vain to hang onto a ledge and is calling out for David to come and save him right before he loses his grip while shouting Nazarene) into a deep pit of molten lava, the Lake of fire. There he finds out that he is chained, and screams in anguish, defeated. As David lies on the ground looking up into the sky smiling, the light becomes brighter, and then fades away, revealing a scene of an Earthly paradise. A scripture is revealed on screen that God has established his home with man, and that He shall reign forever, and ever.

