Following the events of the previous film, a Predator ship leaves Earth carrying Alien facehuggers and Scar's body before a chestburster with traits of both species emerges. It quickly matures into an adult Predalien and starts killing the Predators on board. The hull gets punctured and the ship crashes in a forest outside of Gunnison, Colorado, killing all but one of the Predators. The last surviving Predator sends a distress signal before being killed by the Predalien.

The Predalien and several facehuggers escape, implanting embryos into several humans. On the Predator homeworld, a skilled veteran Predator, Wolf, receives the signal and decides to kill all the Xenomorphs on Earth. He arrives at the crashed ship, uses an acid-like liquid to dissolve evidence of Xenomorphs' presence, and triggers an implosion to destroy the vessel.

Meanwhile, ex-convict Dallas Howard returns to Gunnison after serving time in prison. He reunites with his younger brother Ricky, who is in love with his classmate Jesse but is constantly harassed by her boyfriend Dale and his two friends. Kelly O'Brien also returns to Gunnison after serving in the US Army and reunites with her husband Tim and daughter Molly. Another woman, Darcy Benson, begins searching for her missing husband and son, unaware that they were killed by the facehuggers. Meanwhile, local waitress Carrie Adams discovers she is pregnant.

Wolf starts killing Xenomorphs in the sewer, but four manage to escape. He pursues some to the power plant, where collateral damage from the fight causes a citywide power outage. Ricky and Jesse meet at the high school swimming pool but are interrupted by Dale and his cohorts just as the power goes out. A Xenomorph then appears and kills Dale's friends. Another Xenomorph invades the O'Brien's home, killing Tim while Kelly escapes with Molly. Xenomorphs also attack the diner where Carrie works, and she is impregnated by the Predalien. Darcy discovers her body in horror. Sheriff Morales then arrives and brings her with him.

Ricky, Jesse, Dale, Dallas, and Sheriff Morales gather at a sporting goods store to collect weapons where Kelly and Molly meet them. Troops from the Colorado Army National Guard arrive but are quickly slaughtered by Xenomorphs. Wolf captures Dallas inside the store to use as bait to lure Xenomorphs, but Dallas escapes. Several Xenomorphs arrive, but Wolf defeats them. Dale is killed during the battle and one of Wolf's shoulder plasma casters is damaged, but Wolf reconfigures it into a plasma pistol.

As the survivors attempt to escape Gunnison, they learn Colonel Stevens is staging an air evacuation at the center of town. Dallas and Kelly, however, are skeptical since going there would cause them to become surrounded by Xenomorphs. They, along with Ricky, Jesse, Molly, and a few others go for the helicopter at the hospital to get out of town, while Sheriff Morales and Darcy head to the evacuation zone. However, the hospital has been overruned by Xenomorphs and the Predalien, who has impregnated some pregnant women to breed more Xenomorphs. Wolf arrives at the hospital and dispatches more Xenomorphs. During the battle, he accidentally kills Jesse. Distraught, Ricky rushes Wolf with rifle fire only to be injured by the Predalien. The Predator is attacked by a Xenomorph and both tumble down an elevator shaft. Dallas takes possession of Wolf's plasma blaster.

Dallas, Ricky, Kelly, and Molly reach the roof and fight off several Xenomorphs before escaping in the helicopter. Wolf, having survived the fall, battles the Predalien on the roof. The two mortally wound each other just as an F-22 Raptor arrives, and drops a tactical nuclear weapon, which obliterates the entire city, and killing Wolf and the Predalien. The shock wave causes the fleeing helicopter to crash in a clearing, where the survivors are rescued by the military. Wolf's plasma blaster is confiscated, and Colonel Stevens presents it to Ms. Yutani.

