While on vacation, Grace, her husband Adam, and Grace's younger sister Lee decide to visit a crocodile show. The next day Grace takes a pregnancy test and it is positive, but does not tell her husband. They head to "Black Water Barry's" fishing tour on a whim to take a boat ride into the mangrove swamp to try some fishing.

Once they arrive at the docks, their tour guide Barry is not available, but Jim, another guide, offers to take them instead. Jim arms himself with a revolver and they set off. After failing to catch any fish on the usual route, Jim suggests going deeper into the swamps. While in a small clearing, Lee spots something through her camera and alerts Grace, but later finds nothing.

Suddenly, the boat capsizes, dumping the occupants into the water. Jim is killed underwater, and Adam realizes that a crocodile has attacked them. He helps Grace into a nearby tree and searches the water for Lee, who got tangled up in ropes underneath the boat. Grace sees the beast nearby and convinces Adam to come back. Lee frees herself, but the beast swims after her. She manages to climb atop the boat, but the beast thrashes the boat in an attempt to throw her off. Adam and Grace distract it and it swims away. Realizing they can use the boat's ropes to pull Lee to safety, they attempt to execute this plan, only for the boat to get stuck. A hesitant Lee is forced to swim across and makes it, despite panicking halfway across. The girls suggest waiting for help, but Adam claims no one saw them leave, so Grace tries climbing the trees back to the mainland. However, she is forced to climb back after finding pieces of a corpse. An impatient Adam goes for the boat. He successfully overturns it, but the beast kills him. The girls make numerous attempts to continue his plan, only to be thwarted at every turn, and eventually, the boat floats away out of safe reach.

The next day, they decide to find the boat and the beast confronts them. The beast attacks them, forcing them back to their original tree, though Grace suffers a nasty bite to her thigh in the process. Because of heavy bleeding, her condition worsens over time. A boat comes past and they shout, but it cannot hear them due to its propeller. Lee tries once again to reach the boat and is successful, but the beast suddenly attacks, leaping into the boat. Lee floats unconscious to a very small island alongside Jim's body. She patches herself up and takes his revolver, but finds the gun jammed with mud, so she cleans and unjams it.

She tries to lure the beast in using Jim's detached arm as bait, holding the pistol ready to fire at it. It shows itself and attacks, but her gun jams again. She flees with the beast close behind. It launches a sneak attack when she stops, but Lee manages to get the gun working and kills it. The threat averted, she makes her way back to Grace, who has died from her injuries. Lee, devastated, mourns her sister as she places her on the boat and paddles out of the mangrove.

