In feudal Japan, Oshiga (Kuroki) and Osono are sisters whose father has been killed by Shinzaemon, a samurai, due to a debt dispute. Upon his death, Oshiga and Osono's father vowed revenge for his wrongful murder. His body is dumped in a mysterious lake that's believed to be cursed and haunted by a woman who was wrongfully killed by her husband many years ago. Shortly after, Shinzaemon kills his wife and himself, leaving their baby, Shinkichi, orphaned and in care of his uncle.

Years later, Oshiga, now a respected teacher who runs a school for young girls in Edo, falls in love with a young tobacco vendor named Shinkichi (Kunoemon Oroe), who lives with his uncle. Shinkichi and Oshiga decide to live together as husband and wife, but Shinkichi begins flirting with the school's students, especially Oisa. Miserable and invidious, Oshiga becomes mean to the students, who leave one by one. Oshiga also quarrels with Osono, who doesn't approve of her relationship with Shinkichi, prompting Osono to run away.

Shinkichi admonishes Oshiga for driving away her sister and declares he wants to end their relationship. Oshiga pleads with him not to leave. During this quarrel, Shinkichi accidentally wounds his wife with her shamisen's ''bachi'' against her left brow. They reconcile, but Oshiga slowly falls ill from her wound. Later, at a festival, Oisa meets Shinkichi, who is there to buy medicine for Oshiga, and they rent a hotel room. There he promises to run away with her. Shinkichi then goes to his uncle's house to find that Oshiga is waiting for him. Oshiga states that he can leave but asks him to promise to stay by her side when she dies.

Oshiga succumbs to her illness and is given a proper burial. Shinkichi discovers a letter, left by Oshiga, that warns if he remarries, she will haunt his new wife until the latter dies. He and Oisa elope and flee Edo, but they lose their way in a rainstorm. Oshiga's vengeful spirit terrorises the pair until she makes a frightful apparition to her husband. Out of fearful defense, Shinkichi strikes at Oshiga with a scythe and to his horror, he realises he's stuck it into Oisa's neck. He passes out on the road.

Shinkichi wakes up in the house of a wealthy man. They discover Oisa's corpse, prompting Shinkichi to run away to Hanyo. There, he encounters Osono. Together they mourn the death of Oshiga, and Osono soon finds her former brother-in-law a job. He gives her a small bell as a present. Soon, he's referred as the master of the house. The wealthy man and his wife want Shinkichi to marry their daughter Orui, Oisa's cousin. Shinkichi initially declines. After a blue snake attacks Orui, causing her to get burn herself in a fireplace. Shinkichi notices Orui's burn is in the same place as a scar belonging to Oshiga. He hastily agrees to marry Orui.

Shinkichi and Orui soon have a daughter, who's born unusually pale with a scar on her left brow. The child eventually displays strange characteristics, which troubles Shinkichi.

