On the Cedar Gates Conference Center (CGCC) construction site, Dutch comes into contact with some black slime from the newly broken ground. He hallucinates that Bob (whose wife is sleeping with Dutch) and several others are chasing him down in bulldozers until he trips and is impaled on some exposed rebar— his death is attributed to drinking. One year later: An ecological conference is being held at the newly opened CGCC, led by the Episcopalian priest Father Douglas Middleton. He meets CGCC manager Symes and event coordinator Khali Spence. Middleton's friend and keynote speaker Eugene Herman is practicing his speech in the woods nearby when he is pulled into a slime pit and suffocated by an unseen creature. The next day Middleton alerts Khali to his friend's disappearance, so CGCC Chief of Security Jackson Deadmarsh and her check Eugene's room. They find Reggie and Hank (maintenance men) searching for an undiscovered pipe blockage causing hotel-wide problems, but they have not seen Eugene. Deadmarsh and his assistant, Tony, explore the woods and eventually find Eugene's body, his face badly contorted and disfigured.

Meanwhile, Middleton searches elsewhere due to his troubled history with Deadmarsh and encounters Mikaela Strovsky, an entitled celebrity/model running after her dog, Cleopatra. She is covered in black slime and tells the hotel staff to find her dog so she can return to her room to clean up and record a vlog. While recording, she hallucinates an old, eyeless woman in her room's mirrors and eventually smashes them all, violently cutting her wrists. Manuela, a housekeeping employee, finds Mikaela dead in her room, and her death is labeled a suicide. Symes forbids Khali from calling the police immediately, and she eventually comes in contact with some black slime herself. She hallucinates being chased by the dog that attacked her as a child, and she tries to use her grandmother's necklace for protection. Still, Middleton wakes her from the hallucination, revealing the dog is only Cleopatra. A flashback reveals Khali's necklace was blessed with a prayer from the Ojibwe, her grandmother's people. Reggie and Hank enter the sewers under CGCC, where they find a massive growth of black slime that eats them both. Father Middleton and Khali encounter Dr. Connolly, now living in the woods and continuing his research into the slime. He believes it is a single organism with a hive mind, comparing it to an ant colony that had attacked when the building of the CGCC threatened its habitat, but this organism can reproduce at alarming rates.

Back at the hotel, Deadmarsh views the vlog that Mikaela was recording and saw a slime-covered creature crawl out of her bathtub as she's smashing the mirrors. He and Tony go into the sewers to look for Reggie and Hank. Symes is livid that all the guests of CGCC are evacuating themselves but begins hallucinating when he comes into contact with the slime. He follows Deadmarsh and Tony into the sewers and tries attacking them, but Tony shoots him. Tony and Deadmarsh are slimed by this point, and Tony hallucinates that Symes returns to life. Deadmarsh finds his body as Connolly, Middleton, and Khali enter the sewer and find him. Together, they find Reggie and Hank's bodies and discover the slime is starting to seal up all exits. Deadmarsh sacrifices himself so the others can escape, setting aflame the methane leaking out from the sewer walls after the others are behind a sealed metal door. They come across the creature's heart, including its mouth, and Connolly falls into it. Middleton saves Khali as she is about to fall in, and she uses her grandmother's necklace to calm the creature by reciting the Ojibwe prayer. They escape, and Middleton reconnects with Khali at the ambulance and confesses his hallucination was that Khali fell into the creature and died. He asks her to leave on his next mission, and she agrees; they kiss.

