College students, Jim Halsey (Zachary Knighton) and Grace Andrews (Sophia Bush) are driving across New Mexico to meet their friends for spring break. On their first night of driving, they nearly hit a hitchhiker (Sean Bean), who is standing in the middle of the road. Jim swerves and the car spins out of control to a stop. As the man approaches, Grace insists that someone else will stop to help him and they take off.

Later that night at a gas station, Jim meets the hitchhiker, who introduces himself as John Ryder and asks for a ride. Reluctantly, Jim agrees. While on the road, he becomes increasingly violent and attacks them, holding a knife to Grace's eye. He tells Jim the only way to save them both is to say "I want to die". Jim hits the brakes, causing John to hit his head on the windshield and then, Jim kicks him out of the car. Grace tells Jim she wants to go home but he persuades her to continue with their trip.

The following day, Jim and Grace spot John in a family's car. The two try to warn the family but crash their car. They are forced to continue on foot and eventually find the family's car on the side of the road; both the children and mother are already dead, with the father badly wounded. They take the car and stop at a nearby cafe to tend to the wound, but the man dies.

Suspected of having committed the murders, Jim and Grace are arrested and brought to the police station. John arrives shortly after and kills everyone at the station, while Jim and Grace flee. Lieutenant Esteridge has the rest of the station pursue the couple, but John shows up and single-handedly takes out all of the police cruisers and a helicopter, helping Jim and Grace escape the police.

Grace and Jim check in at a motel. Grace falls asleep but is woken by John, who attempts to sexually assault her. She fights him off and hides in the bathroom. John disappears so Grace leaves the motel to look for Jim and finds him chained at the wrists and ankles between a truck and a trailer. Grace approaches the truck, which is being revved up by John and demands that he stop. The police arrive and tell her to drop her gun, as John drives forward and splits Jim in half, killing him. John is then apprehended by the police.

The next morning, Lt. Esteridge tells Grace that the real John Ryder is missing and they do not know the true identity of the hitchhiker. He informs her the hitchhiker will be transported across the state to another prison. During the journey, the hitchhiker breaks free from his restraints and kills everyone in the police van, causing the vehicle to crash, with Lt. Esteridge and Grace crashing close behind them. The hitchhiker shoots a pool of gasoline, igniting it with Estridge's handgun. Grace goes to search for and kill the hitchhiker, but is ambushed and disarmed, then thrown into the van and trapped by the hitchhiker, thought she then manages to escape. The hitchhiker shoots and kills Lt. Esteridge with his own gun while is injured and trapped in the car. Grace shoots the hitchhiker in the back with a shotgun and then in the chest. The hitchhiker asks her, "Feels good, doesn't it?" to which she replies, "I don't feel a thing," before she shoots him in the head execution style.

