{{long plot|date=October 2023}}  
A student ("Girl") at a Pennsylvania university finds through the campus rideshare board a ride home to Wilmington, Delaware for Christmas. She joins another student ("Guy"), who is driving home to Wilmington and seems to know a lot about her. They have a class together, but she never noticed him.

They stop at an isolated gas station so Girl can use the bathroom.

In the restroom, the door gets stuck, and while pounding on it, she hears Guy and the clerk talking and acting as if they do not notice her screams. She manages to force the door open and angrily asks them why they did not let her out. The two men seem puzzled.

Guy continues the journey with Girl and eventually leaves the highway, opting for a route marked with accident crosses. He says it is a scenic shortcut. Girl figures out that Guy has lied about living in Delaware and demands him to explain himself when suddenly he swerves to avoid a car racing toward them. The pair crash and end up buried in a snowdrift. The other car disappears, leaving no tire tracks. While Guy walks back to the gas station, Girl stays inside his broken car and sees a dark figure stagger near. She calls out, but it ignores her. Guy suddenly appears, saying the gas station is closed, but she can tell that he is lying.

Huddling in the car, Guy admits he had been interested in her, and when he saw that she was needing a ride to Delaware, he saw a chance to meet her and begin a relationship.

When Girl gets out of the car to pee, multiple people appear and walk some distance away, she alerts Guy who follows them to a ruins of a building, inside he discovers a cross necklace in the snow and a frozen corpse that turns to look at him. Back at the car, Girl sees the same figure from before walk past and she follows and calls out for its attention, as she approaches he is only heard pleading "Please officer don't put me in the river", she reaches out to touch him which burns her hand, he turns around which reveals his disfigured bloated face with an eel sliding out his mouth, Girl falls to the ground in fear and two men with bloodied faces stand over her. Guy returns after hearing Girl's screams with all the other figures gone, he comforts her as they return to the car.

The pair think help has arrived when a cop arrives and knocks on their window, acting as if they are just "parking" there. Girl believes he is a corrupt cop looking for a bribe. When the cop violently drags her to the back of his old-fashioned car, Guy hits him with a tire iron. They both jerk awake, finding that Guy's hands are frostbitten. She realizes Guy was injured in the car crash but had been hiding it.

The cop keeps reappearing, always heralded by an old Christmas song on the radio. Girl dreams of the many people the cop has killed and of priests.

Girl has the idea to use an old telephone and the junction box on a nearby telephone pole to call for help. She climbs the pole, connects the telephone, and reaches 911 but is unsure if they can hear her. Returning to the car, she discovers Guy has died.

Girl sees headlights approaching, thinking that it is the cop, but it turns out to be a snow-plow driver responding to her call. The driver puts Guy's body on the back of the snow-plow and leaves with Girl. While driving, he tells her that in the 1950s, a corrupt cop murdered people on that stretch of road, and their bodies were never found. In 1953, he ran a young couple off the road but lost control and crashed in the ravine. Around Christmas every year, people usually die on that road. In 1961, priests were found frozen to death.

The cop then runs them off the road. Despite Girl's pleas, the driver gets out to help the cop, whose car has fallen into the ravine. Girl follows him, and the pair see the two burning cars from 1953. The ghosts of the priests walk down to the trapped cop but instead of helping him, they pull the microphone from his radio, leaving him to die. His burned body crawls out and freezes the plowman to death.

Girl runs back to the truck and tries to start it, but the cop reappears. Guy's ghost also appears, hitting the cop with a tire iron.

She jerks awake and realizes she is back in the car, next to Guy's body. Guy's ghost reappears and leads her through the ruined priests' home nearby, to the gas station.

Hours later, coroners load Guy's body into a van as a paramedic attends Girl, who is now safe.

