In 1983, deprogrammer Jimmy Levine has been hired by a family to retrieve their estranged teenage son, Justin Powell, from a murderous cult.  Levine, along with the boy's father, Andrew Powell, forcibly remove Justin from the cult's clutches during what was staged to look like a kidnapping.  The family, consisting of father, Andrew, mother, Kathy, older brother, Campbell, and Justin's former girlfriend, Samantha, along with her and Justin's baby, Zoey, had gathered for an intervention at Andrew’s cabin in the woods.  Levine, who has either been in a cult himself or had a family member in a cult, attempts to reach Justin by various confrontational methods with no apparent success as Justin continues to appear brainwashed and insists that his real "family" is coming and will kill them all.

With Justin unmoved by pleas made by his mother and Samantha, frustrations mount as Justin's brother and father clash over the effectiveness of Jimmy's methods and prior family issues resurface, such as why the parents had really separated.  While still attempting to deprogram Justin, the family find themselves surrounded by Justin’s cult who silently appear to demand that their captive member be returned to them.

First, “Fox Girl” appears near the cabin and can be seen carving the cult’s symbol into a rock, which prompts Jimmy to confront her. After asking her repeatedly to leave, Jimmy walks into a trap which ties his hands, causing him to drop his gun, and soon after, his stomach slashed while his body is mutilated.  A short time later as the family struggles to understand what is happening, more cultists silently appear.  Several attempts to kill the family and retrieve Justin follow, with Justin's brother and father defending the family and alternatively arguing as the cultist's attacks increase. They manage to kill or incapacitate those cultists who invade the cabin, while Kathy manages to burn one with scalding oil and Samantha wounds another's hands while he was trying to push through the door.

Justin, bound, remains unfazed at his family's struggles and continues to taunt them, insisting that the cultists will not stop until he is set free to return to them.  Jimmy is used as bait and a distraction by the cultists—he is rescued by the Powells but dies shortly afterwards from his injuries.  During a botched attempt to get help, Justin's brother Campbell is captured.  He is tied onto a swing set on the cabin grounds and his hands are set afire, one after the other, by the Lead Cultist.  His mother Kathy, horrified, struggles not to go help Campbell, but then in her grief rushes out to meet the cultists, who easily capture her.  Samantha, who had tried to stop Kathy, then focused on trying to convince Justin to communicate with the cultists and stop their threatening the family.  Andrew rushes out with a pickaxe in an attempt to fight off the cultists and rescue his wife and son when he is outnumbered, outflanked, and stabbed several times until he collapses.  Kathy is horrified, then her throat is slit by Fox Girl.  Both parents die looking across from one another on the ground in the dirt at the feet of the cultists, and Campbell seems to succumb to his injuries while still tied to the swing set.

Justin seems at last to show some recovery and asks that Samantha trust him and release him; she does with some trepidation.  Justin suggests a desperate escape to Samantha while he meets the cultists.  Samantha takes her baby and attempts to escape via a back door to the cabin and makes it to a road in the middle of the night.  Justin appears to supplicate himself before the Lead Cultist, kneeling and pressing his head to the Leader's hand.  Just as help via a vehicle seems possible, the headlights of the vehicle reveal that a cultist is behind Samantha, possibly Justin.<ref>{{Cite news|url=https://deadline.com/2017/01/elijah-rodriguez-soldado-jackals-stephen-dorff-tommy-alastra-productions-1201878652/|title=Elijah Rodriguez Joins ‘Soldado’; Tommy Alastra Prods’ ‘Jackals’ Wraps; XLrator Catches ‘Drifter’ – Film Briefs|last=Busch|first=Anita|date=2017-01-04|work=Deadline|access-date=2017-08-25|language=en-US}}</ref>

