Five friends—Phil, Dom, Hutch, Luke, and Rob—meet at a pub and discuss plans for a group holiday. Rob suggests hiking in Sweden, but gets rebuffed. Afterward, Luke and Rob leave to purchase alcohol, but interrupt a robbery in progress. Luke hides while the thieves harass Rob for his valuables. Luke nearly intervenes, but stops himself before the thieves kill Rob for disobeying them.

Six months later, the remaining four embark on a hiking trip along the Kungsleden in northern Sweden in memory of Rob. A day later, Dom injures his knee. Hutch suggests they cut through the forest rather than use the longer marked trail. Upon entering the forest, the group come across a gutted elk hanging from several branches, as well as mysterious symbols carved in the trees. As night falls, a torrential rainstorm forces them to find shelter. They discover an abandoned cabin, which they break into for the night. Inside, they find necklaces bearing similar symbols and an effigy of a decapitated human torso made of twigs, with antlers for hands. During the night, Luke has a nightmare about the robbery. The next morning, the group awake to find Luke's chest bleeding from puncture wounds and a naked Phil praying to the effigy, all of them having had nightmares. Disturbed by their unconscious actions, the group seek to leave the woods. While discerning their location, Luke spots a large figure amongst the trees, but Dom doubts him. In their ensuing argument, Dom calls Luke a coward for letting Rob die.

Later that night, Luke is having another nightmare about the robbery, and is awakened by Phil's screams. He emerges from his tent and finds Hutch's tent empty and partially collapsed. The remaining three men rush deeper into the woods to search for him, but by dawn, they realize they are lost and unable to locate their campsite. Continuing their search without their supplies, they find Hutch gutted and impaled on tree branches; they give him an impromptu burial. Around sunset, Phil is suddenly dragged away by an unseen creature. Luke and Dom decide to run; as the creature gives chase, the men find a torch-lined path leading to a small settlement and rush into a cottage. After entering they are knocked unconscious.

When they awake, they find themselves restrained in a cellar. An elderly woman enters and inspects Luke's chest wounds, revealing she bears a similar marking. On her way out, she orders two men to take Dom upstairs. A younger woman enters and explains that preparations are being made for a sacrifice. Sometime later, a beaten Dom is returned to the basement. He tells Luke that he is to be sacrificed to the creature, urging him to escape and destroy the village before he too is sacrificed. Desperate to escape, Luke breaks his thumb and partially frees himself from his restraints as Dom is tied up outside by the townsfolk. Amidst the ritual, Dom has a vision of his wife emerging from the forest, only to realise it is the creature as it picks him up and impales him on a nearby tree. Some time later, the young woman returns. When Luke asks about the creature, she explains that it is a Jötunn named "Moder," an ancient god-like entity and an offspring of Loki that the cult provides sacrifices to in return for immortality. Luke has been chosen and is to either worship Moder or be sacrificed.

After she leaves, Luke fully frees himself and ventures upstairs. Armed with a torch, he finds a congregation of mummified worshipers that begin to move and sets them alight, burning the cabin, and attracting Moder. Luke finds a hunting rifle and heads downstairs, killing a follower before taking another man's axe. The enraged Jötunn kills the young woman while Luke shoots at her and escapes. Moder pursues him, crippling his mind with hallucinations of Rob's death before catching and forcing him to his knees. Luke refuses to submit and strikes her with the axe. Following hallucinatory sign-posts and rays of sunlight, he emerges in an open field. Unable to leave the forest, Moder roars in anger while Luke shouts back in triumph before heading towards a paved road.

