Investment banker Harold Lee is bullied into doing his colleagues' work while they leave for the weekend. Meanwhile, his roommate Kumar Patel attends a medical school interview, where he is highly qualified but intentionally ruins his chance to avoid getting accepted. Harold is smitten with his neighbor, Maria, but is too shy to talk to her. After smoking marijuana and seeing an advertisement for White Castle, the pair decide to go for the hamburgers. After traveling to the nearest White Castle in New Brunswick, they find it replaced by "Burger Shack". The drive-thru employee informs them of another White Castle in Cherry Hill.

Kumar suggests stopping at Princeton University to buy more marijuana. Kumar buys marijuana from one of the students and they are discovered by campus security and forced to escape, ditching their marijuana. They resume their drive, and when Kumar pulls over to urinate, a raccoon gets in the car and bites Harold.  Kumar takes Harold to a hospital to check him for rabies; Harold is cleared, but Kumar's father and older brother - who work there as doctors - see them and Kumar's father berates Kumar over his failed medical interview. Kumar fakes an apology and steals ID badges from them to obtain medical marijuana. However, Kumar is then mistaken for his brother by other doctors and is forced to perform emergency surgery on a gunshot victim. To the amazement of Harold and the nurses, Kumar effortlessly saves the patient's life; afterwards, the patient tells them how to reach White Castle.

Kumar spots Maria at a movie theater and decides to get her attention so Harold can talk to her, but Harold panics and crashes the car. They are rescued by Freakshow, a tow-truck driver covered with oozing boils, who takes them to his house to repair their car. Harold and Kumar are propositioned by Freakshow's surprisingly alluring wife, but after Freakshow suggests a foursome, Harold and Kumar leave in horror. Kumar picks up a hitchhiker, Neil Patrick Harris, who is high on ecstasy. Harold and Kumar go into a convenience store to get directions and Harris drives away in their car. The duo are then harassed by a racist police officer for jaywalking. Harold attempts to punch Kumar for arguing with the officer, but inadvertently punches the officer instead, resulting in his arrest.

Kumar makes a 911 call to distract the police and breaks into the station to free Harold. After Harold and Kumar flee, they encounter an escaped cheetah. After smoking marijuana with it, they decide to ride it to White Castle. Harold hits his head on a branch, destroying his laptop containing all the work that he just completed for his co-workers. Harold and a reluctant Kumar decide to not continue on their quest, but after encountering a group of extreme sports punks who have been racially abusing the pair, the duo change their mind and steal their truck. A state trooper spots the speeding truck and chases them. They are trapped when they reach the edge of a cliff. Spotting the White Castle below, Harold and Kumar use a hang glider from the truck to reach their destination.

The pair place their orders but are shocked to find they have no money. Harris suddenly appears, having craved the food when hearing them talk about it and pays for their meal as an apology for stealing their car; he also further pays for "repairs". Kumar realizes he wants to be a doctor, but is afraid of conforming to the stereotype of Indians becoming doctors. Harold then notices his co-workers and two women pull up and gets angry at them because they said they had to work with clients but were actually out partying. He confronts them and threatens to get them fired if it happens again.

After returning to their apartment they encounter Maria, Harold professes his feelings for her and they kiss. She informs Harold that she is leaving for Amsterdam, but will return in ten days. When Harold tells Kumar that Maria is going to Amsterdam, Kumar suggests they pursue Maria, reminding him that marijuana is legal in the Netherlands.

