Sixteen-year-old homeschooled Cady Heron and her parents return to the United States after 12 years in Africa, settling in Evanston, Illinois. After an intimidating first day at North Shore High School, Cady befriends outsiders Janis Ian and Damian Leigh, who explain the school's various cliques and warn her to avoid the "Plastics", a clique consisting of wealthy but insecure Gretchen Wieners, sweet but dimwitted Karen Smith, and "queen bee" Regina George. When Cady is invited to sit with the Plastics at lunch, Janis persuades her to infiltrate them.

Cady becomes attracted to Aaron Samuels, a senior in her calculus class and Regina's ex-boyfriend, and learns about the "Burn Book", a scrapbook the Plastics fill with cruel rumors about students and faculty. Regina offers to talk to Aaron on Cady's behalf, but instead kisses him in front of her and resumes their relationship. Feeling betrayed, Cady fully commits to Janis' plan to ruin Regina's reputation. Regina tells Cady that she and Janis were once friends until she accused Janis of being a lesbian and ostracized her.

After their attempts to sabotage Regina's wardrobe backfire, Cady, Janis, and Damian plan to turn Gretchen against her. They make it seem as though Regina has sent "candy cane-grams" to Cady and Karen while excluding Gretchen. Regina further humiliates Gretchen during the Plastics' dance performance at the Winter Talent Show, leading Gretchen to tell Cady all of Regina's embarrassing secrets. Cady informs Aaron that Regina is cheating on him, prompting them to break up, and tricks Regina into eating nutrition bars that Cady purports to be weight-losing, but which in reality cause her to gain weight. Following a sharp drop in Regina's reputation, she is replaced by Cady as the new "queen bee".

Cady throws a house party while her parents are away, and drunkenly admits to Aaron that she has been deliberately failing math class to make him help her, but he rebukes her for becoming as manipulative and image-obsessed as Regina. Janis and Damian confront Cady for lying to them about the party and remaking herself in Regina's image. Cady accuses Janis of being in love with her and Janis declares her a "mean girl", renouncing their friendship.

Realizing Cady's betrayal, Regina retaliates by distributing the contents of the Burn Book throughout school, inciting chaos among the girls of the junior class. She avoids suspicion by inserting insults about herself, and blame is placed on Cady, Gretchen, and Karen. To restore order, Principal Duvall and math teacher Ms. Norbury gather the female junior students in the gym to apologize to each other. Regina insults Janis' sexuality, prompting Janis to reveal her entire plan to destroy Regina's reputation as the students cheer. Regina storms out, pursued by an apologetic Cady, and is struck by a school bus, fracturing her spine.

When Ms. Norbury is investigated as a drug dealer because of comments Cady wrote in the Burn Book, Cady takes full blame for the book. She is shunned by her peers and distrusted by her own parents, but gradually returns to her old self. She joins the school Mathletes at the state finals, answering the tiebreaker correctly to win the championship. The team arrives at the Spring Fling dance, where Cady is elected queen, but declares that all her classmates are wonderful in their own ways, snapping the plastic tiara and distributing the pieces to other girls in the crowd, including Janis, Gretchen, and Regina. She rekindles her friendship with Janis and Damian, makes up with Aaron, and reaches a truce with the Plastics.

The Plastics disband at the beginning of the new school year; Regina joins the lacrosse team to direct her anger profitably, Karen becomes the school weather reporter, and Gretchen joins the "Cool Asians" clique. Aaron graduates and attends Northwestern University while starting a relationship with Cady. Reflecting on the relative social peace that has taken over North Shore High, Cady notices a trio of new "Junior Plastics", and imagines them being hit by a bus.

