Thanks to falsified dental records supplied by his former neighbor Nicholas "Oz" Ozeransky, retired hitman Jimmy "The Tulip" Tudeski spends his days compulsively cleaning his house and perfecting his culinary skills with his wife, Jill, a purported assassin who has yet to pull off a "clean" hit{{snd}}everyone she is hired to kill dies in bizarre accidents before she has a chance. Oz now owns a dental practice in California and has married Jimmy's ex-wife Cynthia and expecting their first child, but the relationship is strained by Oz's excessive paranoia as well as Cynthia's secret continued contact with Jimmy.

Their lives are further complicated by the return of Laszlo Gogolak, Jimmy's former mob boss and father figure, whose son Janni was killed by Jimmy and Jill while Laszlo was in prison. Having deduced that Jimmy faked his death, Laszlo abducts Cynthia and threatens Oz to try to learn Jimmy's location, but Oz escapes. A desperate Oz contacts Jimmy and Jill, but Jimmy refuses to help until Laszlo's men attack, having followed Oz to Jimmy.

Capturing Laszlo's remaining son Strabovitz, Jimmy offers to trade Strabo for Cynthia. Oz triggers further conflict between Jimmy and Jill when he reveals Jimmy still wears a crucifix from Cynthia. At a bar, Jimmy becomes increasingly depressed at his failure to father a child with Jill, and aggravates Oz by discussing his and Cynthia's old sex life, culminating in Oz and Jimmy becoming so drunk they wake up in the same bed.

Frustrated by her poor sex life with Jimmy, Jill attempts to seduce Oz but is interrupted by Jimmy, who knocks Oz out and regains his passion for Jill and his work as the two have sex in the bathroom. Re-arming themselves at Oz's house, the three are attacked by an unknown marksman and Strabo is killed in the crossfire. Jimmy insults Jill’s capabilities and coldly dismisses Oz; Jill leaves. Oz retreats to his practice where he is met by Jimmy, who apologizes for recent events. The two are chloroformed by Oz's new receptionist Julie, revealed to be the sister of Frankie Figgs, seeking revenge for Oz and Jimmy's role in her brother's death.

Waking up beside Cynthia and Jimmy in Laszlo's apartment, Oz is shocked to learn that the entire situation has been planned by Jimmy and Cynthia to find Laszlo's half of the first dollar he ever stole, which he had torn and divided between Jimmy and Janni as kids. As Laszlo prepares to kill them, Jill arrives, having tied up Strabo's body in her car with explosives to appear alive, and threatens to detonate unless Laszlo releases Oz and Cynthia. Asking to join Laszlo's organization, Jill is ordered to kill Jimmy, who tells her she'll never be a successful hitter before she shoots him in the heart.

Jill's car explodes as Laszlo's men try to release Strabo, revealing Jill was in on the plan and shot Jimmy with blanks. Jules is exposed as the shooter who killed Strabo, and Laszlo shoots her. Jimmy, unable to kill the man who raised him, has Jill shoot Laszlo in the foot. Jimmy and Cynthia further reveal that Laszlo's half of the dollar combines with Jimmy’s to reveal the number for a $280 million bank account. Jill reveals she is pregnant, and the four drive away as Laszlo is arrested.

