In 1898, a German outlaw named Erik Klaus allegedly buried treasure somewhere in the Arizona desert before disappearing, leaving behind an ominous warning to anyone who went looking for his stash. Years later, a group of cowboys discovers the loot, which turns out to be a coal-like "summoning stone" that releases Krampus when exposed to open flames. According to myth, Saint Nicholas left pieces of the stone in the shoes and stockings of his enemies, so that Krampus would kill them when the clothing was placed by a fire to dry. Krampus is accidentally summoned when the stone is dropped on a lantern, and it proceeds to massacre all of the cowboys save one, Cooper. While Cooper flees, the summoning stone falls into a stream, and is lost.

Decades later, a family consisting of Will and Amber, and their children Tommy and Fiona, travels to Arizona to spend Christmas with Amber's parents, Dale and Alice Henderson. Amber hasn't seen her parents in a long time, so she's excited for the reunion. Also present are Amber's environmentalist brother, David, his wife, Vivian, and their delinquent son, Troy. While gold panning in a creek near the house, Tommy finds the summoning stone, which brings forth Krampus when Troy accidentally burns it with a lit cigarette. Krampus runs amok through the area, murdering a pair of Bigfoot hunters, as well as the boyfriend of a woman named Bonnie who lives nearby. Bonnie seeks aid from the Hendersons and uses their telephone to call 911.

As they wait for the police to arrive, Will, Dale, Alice and Amber are all slaughtered by Krampus. David, Vivian, Fiona, Troy, Tommy and Bonnie try to flee in a car, but it crashes, killing Vivian. David attacks Krampus to buy the others time to run away and is ripped to pieces. Bonnie, Fiona, Troy and Tommy make it to Cooper's trail who has spent his life studying Krampus ever since he survived it all those years ago. Cooper reveals that Krampus is summoned by fire, but can be banished back to Hell by earth.

Cooper, Bonnie, Fiona, Troy and Tommy lure Krampus into an abandoned mine shaft with the summoning stone, and Cooper sacrifices himself to collapse the cavern on Krampus with TNT while the others escape. In the morning, Bonnie, Tommy and Fiona and are found by Bonnie's ex-boyfriend, a state trooper named Dan. Troy, who had become separated from the others, is mauled by a baby Krampus that had hatched from the summoning stone.

