As a child, Lucie Jurin escapes from a building where she has been held captive and tortured. Lucie spends the rest of her childhood at St. Mary's Orphanage, where she is haunted by hallucinations of a strange-looking creature that attempts to attack her at every turn. Over time, she grows extremely close to Anna Assaoui, a fellow resident at the orphanage and Lucie's only friend.

Ten years later, Lucie goes to the countryside home of the Patterson family with a shotgun and executes all four family members, believing them to be related to her childhood torture. Lucie calls Anna who is concerned that the family may not be responsible for Lucie's torture. Anna is horrified by the scene when she arrives at the house and calls 9-1-1 while Lucie sleeps but hangs up. Anna discovers Mrs. Patterson is still alive and tries to help her escape. Lucie suddenly tackles Mrs. Patterson outside and stabs her to death. While cleaning the crime scene, Anna finds a secret panel in a closet which leads to a hidden basement. Anna finds a little girl named Sam and rescues her. The two regroup with Lucie and safely make their exit from the basement when several trucks arrive with Eleanor, Fenton and several other people to give chase; after the pursuit, all three girls are soon captured and taken under custody.

Later, Anna is interrogated by Eleanor, who explains that her group is a collective dedicated to discovering what waits in the afterlife; by torturing women and young girls to their breaking point, they believe they can create Martyrs with an ability to glimpse briefly into "the other side". Giving Anna gratitude for bringing Lucie back, she values Lucie as a rare find, as she is capable of enduring great pain without dying. As an example, Eleanor has Anna watch from an overhead room as the cabal gathers to observe a captive woman being burned at the stake. After the woman dies, the priest overseeing her ordeal looks in Eleanor's direction and shakes his head. Lucie is taken for surgery and Eleanor orders the doctor to perform a procedure on Lucie. The doctor cuts and peels a piece of flesh from Lucie's back as part of the final preparations for her martyrdom.

Meanwhile, Anna is taken to a pit outside and buried alive for being Lucie’s accomplice but she digs her way into a drainage ditch and escapes. She fights her way back into the underground facility, killing several cabal members. She frees Sam and tells her to run for help. While she searches for Lucie, she is attacked by Fenton and shot in the shoulder but eventually kills him with the help of another captive woman. Anna gets stabbed in the side by one of the cabal members before shooting him.

Anna finds and interrupts an assembly gathered to watch Lucie die on a cross. Lucie gets a look in her eyes that the group feels signifies martyrdom and Anna, wielding Fenton's gun, insists that Lucie be freed. Lucie reveals what she saw in a whisper to Anna. Eleanor demands to know what Lucie said; the priest says he heard Lucie's whispers before quickly putting a gun in his mouth and killing himself. Anna shoots Eleanor and the rest of the cabal members flee. Anna embraces Lucie as they lie dying on the floor. With the police on their way, both women's eyes glaze over with the look of martyrdom.

