Kevin Wendell Crumb, a man struggling with dissociative identity disorder (DID) rooted in his history of childhood abuse and abandonment, has been managing living with his 23 distinct identities ("alters") well for several years with help from his therapist, Dr. Karen Fletcher. The most dominant of the desirable alters, "Barry", has been in control of deciding which personalities get to control Kevin's body, and lately he has not allowed "Dennis" or "Patricia" to have a turn due to the former's tendency to harass young girls and the latter's belief in a mysterious entity called "The Beast" who plans to rid the world of the "impure", that is, those who have not suffered. Dr. Fletcher is concerned when she realizes that "Dennis" has been impersonating "Barry" during their sessions after questioning him about an incident wherein Dennis had been left disturbed when two teenage girls had placed his hands on their breasts while drunk.

Just outside Philadelphia, Dennis kidnaps three girls — Claire, Casey and Marcia — when they are waiting in the car of Claire's father to get driven home from a birthday party. He imprisons the girls in a secret underground lair beneath the Philadelphia Zoo, where they meet Patricia, who protects the girls from Dennis to save them for "The Beast", and a 9-year-old boy alter named "Hedwig", revealed to be the true dominant alter, whom Patricia and Dennis are manipulating to shut out the other alters. The girls try to escape by going through the vents, manipulating Kevin's alters, and communicating with another individual via a walkie-talkie, but all of their attempts end in failure.

Dr. Fletcher goes to the zoo to talk to Dennis when he claims to have made contact with "The Beast", in reality a yet-to-manifest 24th personality, but she discovers Claire, so Dennis incapacitates the doctor and locks her up. Then he goes to the train station and boards an empty train car, where "The Beast" takes over. "The Beast", who displays enhanced strength and animalistic tendencies, returns to his lair, thanks Dr. Fletcher for her help, and crushes her to death. He savagely feeds upon and kills Claire and Marcia before approaching Casey, but she calls out Kevin's full name, which brings forth his original personality. Upon learning of the situation and realizing that he has not been in control of his own body for two years, the horrified Kevin begs Casey to kill him with a shotgun he has hidden. This prompts all 24 personalities to fight for control, with Patricia the victor. She tells Casey that "Kevin" has been made to sleep far away and will not awaken now even if his name is called.

While Patricia returns control to "The Beast", Casey retrieves the shotgun and a box of cartridges and escapes into a tunnel. She manages to shoot "The Beast" twice before running out of ammo, but he only sustains minor wounds. He moves closer to murder her, but stops when he sees scars across her abdomen and chest, which are related to her having been abused by her uncle and legal guardian, John, both before and after her father's death. Because she is "pure," "The Beast" spares Casey's life, and she is rescued the next morning by the police.

In another hideout, Dennis, Patricia, and Hedwig discuss the power of "The Beast" and their plans to change the world. At the Silk City Diner, several patrons watch a news report on "The Beast's" crimes, with the correspondent mentioning that his numerous alters have earned him the nickname "The Horde". A waitress notes the similarity to a criminal in a wheelchair who was incarcerated fifteen years earlier, who was also given a nickname. As she tries to remember it, David Dunn, sitting next to her replies that it was "Mr. Glass".

