Adele is a lonely young teenage girl who has been sent to care for her aunt Dora, who is agoraphobic and refuses to have any contact with Adele other than a series of messages and rules slid under her door. She seems to have an escape from this bleak existence after meeting Beth, a vibrant woman her own age and Adele's opposite in looks and personality. As they spend more time together Adele begins to adopt some of Beth's behaviors and mannerisms, which include her deliberately purchasing inexpensive versions of the items Dora asks her to buy so she can pocket the money.

Adele initially only replaces food items, but Beth eventually persuades her to purchase an over-the-counter heart medicine for her aunt rather than her prescription heart medication. This inevitably results in Dora's death, which Adele only learns about when the food tray remains untouched. Upon discovering the body, Adele takes a ring with a greenish stone off of her aunt's body and calls the ambulance crew to take away the remains.

Adele then takes the ring to Beth and leaves it outside of her apartment door, as she believes them to be in a relationship after the two share moments of passion on a beach. She's hurt to discover that this wasn't the case and storms off, leaving Beth to discover the ring on her own. After this Adele pawns her aunt's jewelry and purchases a blouse she had been eyeing for a while. Wearing the blouse Adele goes to a bar and picks up a guy, who is unable to see Beth watching the two of them at the bar. Later Adele is frightened by Beth, who appears behind her and begins acting strangely. Upon hearing a noise upstairs, Adele goes to investigate and experiences inexplicable phenomena, seeing the decrepit figure of her dead aunt. Unable to leave the house, Adele tries to hide in the basement but is discovered by Beth, who now possesses a monstrous figure. The film then shows that Adele's little sister has come to the house to care for her. Adele now resembles an old woman, implying that Beth has stolen her youth - and is much older than she appears - and that the cycle will repeat itself with her little sister.

