Twenty-five years after the mass suicide of the religious cult Heaven's Veil, documentary filmmaker Maggie Price and her brother Christian contact the sole survivor, Sarah Hope, to film a documentary about what really happened. Sarah, who was five years old at the time, accepts Maggie's claim that there is footage from the suicide that has never been found. Christian explains that their father was the FBI agent who led the investigation. Shortly after discovering the mass suicide, he committed suicide himself, driving the siblings to investigate.

Maggie takes Sarah to the site of the cult's suicide. They shoot footage of Sarah's reaction and are concerned when she collapses, overwhelmed by memories and visions. After setting up camp for the night, Sarah wakes from a nightmare to find that the grip, Ed, has disappeared with their van. Ann, the sound editor, and Nick, the gaffer, leave to find Ed. The others follow Sarah, who has remembered the location of a house in the forest. Inside, they find the lost footage and missing cult member Karen Sweetzer's corpse. In a tape found near her body, Karen briefly addresses Sarah before dying.

The group watches the lost tapes, in which Jim Jacobs, the quasi-Christian occultist leader of Heaven's Veil, describes how he uncovered the secret to eternal life though alchemy. They learn that Karen is Sarah's mother. Ann and Nick return, revealing that Ed has died in a car accident. Later tapes depict Jim experimenting with dangerous drugs to help him cross over to the spirit realm. During one trance, he possesses a cult member and announces that he has freed the first of three bindings from her soul. Ghosts kill and possess Nick when he leaves to restart the house's generator; he rejoins the others and kills Ann when they are alone. Nick and Ann, now possessed, return together to continue watching the tapes. In the tapes, Jim poisons himself during further experiments, removing the second binding from his soul, then returning once an antidote is applied to him.

After hearing ghostly whispers, the remaining filmmakers become convinced that the house is haunted. Jill, the sound editor, and Matt, the cameraman, find Ed alive but injured. Ed kills Jill, and they return to the house. Sarah holds a seance to communicate with her mother, who demands that she convince the filmmakers to stay at the house. Ann murders Christian, who rises and joins her. Everyone but Maggie and Sarah are now possessed.

In the final reel, Jim reveals that the poison administered to the cult members was supposed to be counteracted by the antidote. Karen objects to poisoning the children and allows Sarah to flee. Jim is revealed to be Sarah's father and forces Karen to take the poison. Karen leaves with the footage for the house, where she dies. Before the cult can administer the antidote to themselves, the FBI arrive and interrupt the ceremony. Denied the antidote, the cult members all die.

Sarah reveals that the ghosts of the cult members have possessed the documentary filmmakers. Jim, possessing Ed, nails Maggie to a tree despite her protests that her father did not know about the antidote. The police arrive with Matt, only to be killed and possessed as well. Jim announces his plan to feed upon the souls of the rest of the world.

