Following the unexplained deaths of her parents, sixteen-year-old aspiring model Jesse has just moved from small unnamed town Georgia to Los Angeles. She meets photographer Dean, who does her first shoot, and makeup artist Ruby, who introduces fellow older models Sarah and Gigi, who are interested in her physical appearance and in her sexual experiences, which Jesse feigns to have had.

Jesse is signed by Roberta Hoffman, the owner of a modeling agency, who tells her to pretend she is nineteen and refers her to a test shoot with notable photographer Jack McCarther. The shoot is successful, and Gigi and Sarah envy Jesse's youth. Jesse goes to a casting call for fashion designer Robert Sarno where Sarah is also present. Sarno pays no attention to Sarah but is entranced by Jesse's beauty. A distraught Sarah asks her how it feels to be the one everyone admires. Jesse admits, "It's everything," and Sarah lunges toward her, subsequently cutting Jesse's hand on the glass. Sarah sucks the blood from Jesse's hand and Jesse rushes back to her motel and faints, hallucinating abstract imagery.

At Sarno's fashion show, Gigi talks to Jesse about cosmetic surgery. As Jesse is closing the show, she hallucinates abstract triangular shapes and reflections of herself. After the show, a visibly changed Jesse goes out with Dean to a bar, where Sarno negatively compares Gigi's surgically enhanced looks to Jesse's natural beauty. Dean finds the conversation unpleasant and attempts to leave with Jesse, who refuses, now espousing a narcissistic persona.

Jesse has a nightmare of being forced by Hank, the lecherous motel owner, to sexually swallow a knife. She wakes up to hear someone fidgeting with her door lock. She quickly turns the deadbolt but is left to listen as the intruder breaks into the next room and assaults the thirteen-year-old female occupant inside. Terrified, she calls Ruby, who invites Jesse to her home. Ruby makes sexual advances towards Jesse but is rejected by Jesse, who reveals herself to be a virgin. Ruby then leaves for her second job as a cosmetologist at a morgue, where she pleasures herself with a female corpse.

Ruby returns home and finds Jesse now unabashed in her narcissism. Jesse encounters Sarah and Gigi, who along with Ruby chase her and cause her to fall into a deep, empty pool. The women then approach with knives. After they butcher Jesse and consume parts of her body, they all bathe in her blood. Ruby is revealed to have occult tattoos. She lies in Jesse's unmarked grave, and later, nude in her house as a torrent of blood gushes from her genitals.

The next day, Sarah and Gigi attend one of Jack's shoots with another model named Annie. Jack is suddenly enthralled with Sarah and fires Annie. In the midst of the shoot, Gigi runs off set, suddenly ill. Sarah watches Gigi vomit up one of Jesse's eyeballs. She screams with regret, "I need to get her out of me," and stabs herself with a pair of scissors. Sarah watches Gigi die and eats the regurgitated eyeball before returning to the shoot.

The end credits scene shows a woman, who does not show her face, walking alone in the Mojave Desert.

