In northwest China, a security, customs and peacekeeping company under Han China's current government called Silk Road Protection Squad is committed to stopping battles, customs clearing and peacekeeping on the Silk Road. Huo An (Jackie Chan), the captain, successfully averts a battle between Indians and Xiongnu whilst he inadvertently disgraces the Xiongnu woman warrior. The squad returns to their home city where Huo An's gentle wife Xiuqing (Mika Wang) serves as a schoolteacher for orphans of multiple ethnicities. One day, the Protection Squad's commanders uncover evidence that someone in the Squad is corrupt after soldiers found bribes among the corpses of enemies they neutralised. Suspecting Huo An and his squad to be the culprits, the commanders sentence then to construction work at the Wild Geese Gate, a ruined fortress located on the fringes of the Western regions, run by a Turkic auxiliary commander and housing workers, peasants, and prisoners of various nomadic groups tasked with rebuilding the fort.

Not long after, Wild Geese Gate is threatened by an exhausted Roman legion, carrying with them a blind boy named Publius (Jozef Waite), youngest son of triumvir Marcus Licinius Crassus. The Wild Geese Gate commander tries to fight the Romans, only to be defeated. Huo An rides out to stop the Romans, leading to a duel between him and legionary commander Lucius (Cusack). The duel ends in a stalemate after discovering a coming sandstorm, and seeing Publius and some Roman soldiers collapse due to starvation. Huo An allows the Romans to enter the fortress and recover, despite the Wild Geese Gate commander's protests. The next day, the Romans help the workers in rebuilding the fortress using their superior engineering skills, boosting the morale and happiness of the inhabitants in the process. Huo An returns the favor by sending some of his men to assist Lucius's envoys in reaching the Parthian Empire. A celebration is later held and Huo An is made an honorary centurion by Publius himself.

Lucius reveals that he and Publius are fleeing from Publius's brother Tiberius (Brody), a sadistic and ruthless Roman who betrayed and murdered Crassus during the Battle of Carrhae, blinded Publius to become consul, and defied the peace treaty with the Parthians. Learning that Tiberius is marching with 100,000 soldiers from the soldiers that Huo An sent earlier, Huo An insists on helping Lucius stop Tiberius as he is a big threat to the Silk Road. Shortly after, Huo An leaves to gather reinforcements, only to find that his second-in-command, revealed to be the corrupt soldier, has sent soldiers to murder Xiuqing and attack Wild Geese Gate in an attempt to help Tiberius in his conquest of the Silk Road and become the Protection Squad's commanding prefect. Huo An saves his wife and the orphans with help from the Xiongnu, but his wife is mortally wounded when she tried to rescue one of the orphans. At her dying breath, Xiuqing convinces Huo An to protect the orphans. Meanwhile, Lucius is betrayed and imprisoned alongside his legionaries in the city of Kroran, where Tiberius and his legions are encamped. Lucius is brutally tortured by Tiberius while Publius and his tutor are forced to commit suicide.

After learning of Lucius and his legion's capture, Huo An and a few loyal soldiers from his squad and the Wild Geese Gate travel to Kroran to rescue them and liberate the Silk Road. Huo An's group incites an uprising that frees Lucius's soldiers while Huo An himself breaks into Lucius's cell to free him but to no avail. As Tiberius's soldiers arrive to apprehend Huo An, he is begged by Lucius to kill him so that he does not have to suffer a slow death. Huo An tearfully acquiesces before returning to help his comrades. As Huo An and Lucius's soldiers are routed, nomadic hordes arrive to help them in the fight against Tiberius and his legions. A battle ensues but despite their combined strength, the nomadic forces are unable to gain the upper hand and they suffer heavy casualties. Among the dead are members of Huo An's squad, the Wild Geese Gate commander and his translator, and the Xiongnu warriors. The battle's tide is soon turned when an army of Parthians, led by some of Lucius's soldiers sent earlier, arrive to avenge Crassus and restore peace between Rome and Parthia. Tiberius is persuaded by his generals to surrender but he stubbornly refuses. Huo An then challenges Tiberius to a fierce duel which ends with Tiberius killed.

After the battle, the Chinese emperor allows the Romans to establish their own city, naming it Regum, or Liqian in Chinese, upon hearing of their bravery. The Emperor also allows the surviving nomadic inhabitants of the Wild Geese Gate to join the Protection Squad with Huo An as their commander. Huo An and his men then honor their fallen comrades, especially Lucius, by relocating Wild Geese Gate's shrine to Regum. Thousands of years later, the city fades from collective memory until in the present day, a team of archaeologists stumble upon the site and uncover its ruins but upon learning of its tragic history via 3D reconstruction, the archeologists prefer to leave Regum be in peace.

