Luke Vaughn is working in a Southern casino ("The Swan") run by Francis "The Pope" Silva. Vaughn has a sick daughter, and needs $300,000 for a necessary surgery. He approaches "Pope" who refuses his plea for a loan; when Vaughn is insistent, Pope fires him and has him beaten by his right-hand man, Derrick "Dog" Prince.

Security guard Cox tells Vaughn the casino is laundering for the mob. Vaughn, who has the codes to the vault, joins Cox and steals the money. After the heist, the thieves are intercepted by Dog's henchmen. A gun battle ensues, wounding one of the thieves. Once their getaway driver escapes, the rest are forced to hijack a city bus. Police officer Kris Bajos hears the gunshots and pursues the bus. When Cox shoots through a window at Bajos, she calls for reinforcements. The police setup a road block.

Vaughn writes a passenger's phone number on a bus window, to enable Bajos to contact him. He warns her that Cox will kill passengers if the police do not clear the road blocks. Bajos follows through and Vaughn orders Bernie, the bus driver, to ram the road block, allowing the bus to enter the interstate highway. Passengers' mobile phones are thrown from the bus and Vaughn asks one of the passengers, a veterinarian student, to take care of the wounded thief. Cox calls Jono, an old man who aided them in planning the robbery, to update him. The bus is running low on fuel, so Vaughn calls for a fuel tanker.

Detective Marconi joins forces with Bajos and instructs her to drive the fuel tanker. Marconi briefs SWAT and monitors the bus via a police helicopter. Vaughn allows Pauline and a young boy to leave the bus. During refueling, Vaughn allows Bajos to board the bus to check on the hostages. After Bajos suggests that the wounded thief be let off the bus for medical treatment, Cox objects and she has an altercation with Cox, during which she takes his gun from his waist. Vaughn defuses the situation. As she wraps up refueling, Vaughn asks Bajos to let him know how Pauline is. At the police station the boy is reunited with his mom and Bajos interviews Pauline. Dog learns the location of Jono through a police radio scanner.

With the wounded thief suffering blood loss Vaughn calls Marconi, who boards the bus from a SWAT truck with a medical emergency kit. He hands the vet student a syringe with 'pain meds' and the wounded thief dies. Marconi gets a call from Pope and tosses the phone to Vaughn, revealing Marconi's affiliation with Pope. Marconi is thrown from the bus and a SWAT team attacks the bus, popping a tire, causing it to crash near a bridge.

With police surrounding the bus, Cox holds Bernie hostage. Vaughn shoots Cox, saving Bernie. Vaughn receives a call from his daughter saying that she is okay and Bajos tells him she knows about the hospital bills. Vaughn negotiates with Marconi the release of all the hostages except one and, once the tire is repaired, the bus departs. The police authorities follow the bus, but Vaughn escapes with the money in a police car.

Vaughn arrives at Jono's, but finds him shot dead. Dog knocks him out with a shot of rock salt. Back on the bus, they are joined by Pope and Marconi, though Pope kills Marconi as Dog pours gasoline over Vaughn. Pope gloats that Vaughn did not make it to the hospital by 7pm with the money. However, Pauline is Vaughn's sister, and Vaughn had slipped the $300,000 in her bag earlier. She pays the hospital bill. Bajos deduces what Pauline is doing but does not stop her.

Pope shoots Dog dead before he can light up Vaughn. Pope loosens Vaughn's ropes and tells him his mother had a saying about people on their deathbed speaking of regrets. He hands a grateful Vaughn the keys to his Rolls-Royce car, which is parked outside, so he can go visit his daughter. Pope waits on the bus as the police arrive.

