IMF Agent Ethan Hunt intercepts a shipment of nerve gas being moved by the Syndicate, a secret consortium of rogue field operatives from various intelligence agencies that he has been tracking. Later, at an IMF station in London, Ethan's debrief is from the Syndicate itself, indicating that it has compromised him and the IMF. While being gassed unconscious, he is forced to watch a blonde man wearing glasses execute the station operative. 

In Washington D.C., CIA Director Alan Hunley convinces a Senate committee to decommission and assimilate the IMF into the CIA due to their recent destructive events in Russia{{efn|as depicted in Mission Impossible: Ghost Protocol}}. Ex-IMF agents Benji Dunn and William Brandt then began working for the CIA under strict scrutiny and security due to Hunley's suspicions about the Syndicate's existence. Ethan awakes in a torture chamber led by ex-KGB agent Janik "Bone Doctor" Vinter. With the help of a mysterious woman, he escapes. Six months later, Hunt, who is a wanted fugitive, covertly passes information about the Syndicate to Benji, and arranges his tickets to ''Turandot'', performed by the Vienna State Opera. Upon Benji's arrival in Vienna, Ethan asks him to help track down the blonde man who killed the IMF station operative in London. 

At the opera, they encounter the woman, later revealed to be an undercover MI6 agent, Ilsa Faust, and several other Syndicate agents there to assassinate the Chancellor of Austria. Ethan prevents the hit and escapes with Faust, only to witness the Chancellor being killed by a car bomb. Chased by Syndicate agents, Ethan and Benji are forced to leave Faust to protect her cover. Because of their proximity to the Chancellor's assassination, Hunley orders the Special Activities Division to capture or, if necessary, execute both Ethan and Benji upon sighting. Brandt convinces former IMF agent, Luther Stickell, to help him locate both Ethan and Benji before the CIA does. Meanwhile, Ethan and Benji find Faust in Casablanca, where she identifies Ethan's suspect as the rogue MI6 agent, Solomon Lane, who is now the leader of the Syndicate. The three then infiltrate an underwater vault beneath a power plant, to retrieve a digital ledger stolen from Lane, that purportedly contains the names of all Syndicate operatives. However, Faust flees with the data to London and meets her handler, MI6 Chief, Atlee, who discreetly deletes the data and forces her to continue her undercover assignment.

Later, Benji and Ethan are found by Stickell and Brandt. It is revealed that Benji copied the data from the ledger before giving it to Faust. Stickell discovers that the data is an encrypted British government virtual red box that requires the biometrics of the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom to unlock it. They all travel to London, but Lane's men abduct Benji during the team's meeting with Faust at King's Cross railway station and use him to blackmail Ethan into decrypting and delivering the data to him. Despite Brandt's protests, Ethan accepts the mission. Brandt secretly reveals their location to Hunley. 

In Oxford, Hunley, Brandt, and Atlee meet the Prime Minister, who confirms that the Syndicate was a secret project proposed by Atlee to recruit former intelligence agents and perform missions without oversight, which the Minister rejected. Atlee reveals himself as Ethan in a mask; he and Brandt secure the Minister's biometrics, allowing Stickell to decrypt the file. When the real Atlee arrives, Ethan and Brandt force him to admit that he surreptitiously started the Syndicate without the Minister's knowledge before Lane hijacked it, after which, Atlee tried to frame Faust. 

The file is revealed to contain access to £2.4 billion, in numerous accounts. Ethan destroys the data after deducing that Lane plans to fund the Syndicate with the money. Arriving at the meeting place arranged by Lane, Ethan finds Benji, who is strapped to a bomb and wearing a headset and contact lens camera to serve as Lane's proxy, alongside Faust. Ethan tells Lane that he has memorized the data and offers himself in exchange for Benji's safety. Benji escapes after Lane remotely disarms the bomb, while Ethan and Faust are chased by Vinter's men through the Tower of London. Faust kills Vinter while Lane, who pursues Ethan, is lured into a bulletproof glass cell and gassed unconscious. Having witnessed an IMF success firsthand, Hunley returns to the Senate committee and claims that their previous meeting served as a pretext to help Ethan expose and shut down the Syndicate, convincing the committee to restore the IMF. After the meeting, Brandt welcomes Hunley as the new IMF Secretary.

