In Mexico City, MI6 agent James Bond foils a bombing attempt on a stadium during a Day of the Dead festival. Bond obtains a ring stylized with an octopus from the deceased{{failed verification|date=July 2023}} attacker, Marco Sciarra, uncovering his connection to a secret organization.

In London, Gareth Mallory, the current M, suspends Bond for his unauthorized action. M is engaged in a power struggle with Max Denbigh (whom Bond dubs "C"), the Director-General of the new, privately backed Joint Intelligence Service formed by the merger of MI5 and MI6. C campaigns for Britain to join the global surveillance and intelligence initiative "Nine Eyes" and shut down the '00' section. Bond, who was operating on a mission posthumously assigned by the previous M to eliminate Sciarra and track down his employers, goes rogue from MI6, with Eve Moneypenny and Q agreeing to aid Bond covertly.

Following the previous M's instructions, Bond attends Sciarra's funeral in Rome and rescues his widow Lucia from assassins. Lucia reveals Sciarra's association with a terrorist network run by figurehead Franz Oberhauser, who has been presumed dead for twenty years. Using Sciarra's ring, Bond infiltrates a meeting where Oberhauser targets the "Pale King" for assassination. Oberhauser recognizes Bond, who flees across the city in a modified Aston Martin DB10, pursued by the network's top assassin, Hinx. Moneypenny identifies the Pale King as Mr. White, a former member of the organization's subsidiary, Quantum.

Bond tracks White down to Altaussee, where he is dying of thallium poisoning. Bond offers to protect his daughter, psychiatrist Madeleine Swann, who possesses knowledge about "L'Américain". White commits suicide. Bond finds Swann, who is reluctant to trust him until Hinx and his forces abduct her. Bond rescues Swann, earning him her trust. Q reveals Le Chiffre, Dominic Greene and Raoul Silva as agents of Oberhauser's organization, which Swann reveals is named Spectre. Swann takes Bond to L'Américain, a hotel in Tangier, where a secret room directs them to Oberhauser's base in the Sahara. Hinx ambushes them en route to the base, but they fight him off and defeat him.

Arriving at the base, Bond and Swann confront Oberhauser, who reveals Spectre's involvement in the Joint Intelligence Service and the Nine Eyes programme. C, complicit in Spectre's scheme, plans to give Spectre unrestricted access to intelligence gathered by Nine Eyes. After showing Swann a distressing recording of her father's suicide, Oberhauser subjects Bond to neurosurgical torture. He discusses his shared past with Bond to Swann, revealing that they became adoptive brothers after Bond's parents died. Falsely believing that his father loved Bond more than him, Oberhauser killed him and staged his death as well. Since then, he founded Spectre intending to target Bond and adopted the name Ernst Stavro Blofeld. Bond and Swann break free, stun Blofeld with an explosive wristwatch, and destroy the base before fleeing to London to prevent Nine Eyes from going online.

In London, Bond, Swann, M, Q, Bill Tanner and Moneypenny gather to arrest C. However, Swann and Bond are separately abducted by Spectre operatives while the others proceed with the plan. After Q stops Nine Eyes from going online, a fatal struggle between M and C results in C's death. Bond is taken to the ruins of the old MI6 building, scheduled for demolition after Silva's bombing,{{refn|group=N|As depicted in ''Skyfall'' (2012)}} where Swann is held captive. Blofeld, who survived the base's destruction with heavy scarring to his face, gives Bond a three-minute ultimatum to abandon Swann or attempt a rescue and risk death. Bond finds Swann and they escape as the building collapses. Bond shoots down Blofeld's helicopter, which crashes onto Westminster Bridge. Blofeld survives and is arrested by M.

Later, Bond receives his restored Aston Martin DB5 from Q and drives off with Swann.

