''Colour Me Kubrick'' begins with a direct homage to ''A Clockwork Orange'' in the aftermath of one of Alan Conway's (Malkovich) minor cons: two thugs are sent to collect a bar bill that Conway has generated by impersonating Kubrick. Unbeknown to them, Conway has provided the address of an elderly couple as Kubrick's home address. Conway is nowhere to be seen and after the thugs cause a ruckus outside the house, the police are called and they are arrested.

Following these events, the audience is taken through several of Conway's scams, including tricking a fashion designer, members of a heavy metal band, and a popular bar owner. All of the victims are deceived into giving "Kubrick" sums of money, free food and drinks, and even sexual favours. Conway actually knows little about Kubrick or his films, so he simply puts on a different persona&mdash;from reserved English gentleman to flamboyant Jewish stereotype&mdash;with each victim. Conway deceives just about everyone he meets into believing he is the reclusive director, except for a rent boy at a bar, who tests Conway by saying that his favourite Kubrick film is ''Judgment at Nuremberg''; when Conway begins an anecdote about directing the film, the young man tells him casually that ''Judgment at Nuremberg'' was in fact directed by Stanley Kramer, and Conway walks away.

Conway also has a run-in with Frank Rich (William Hootkins), a journalist from ''The New York Times''. He meets Rich and his wife in a restaurant and confronts him about an article ''The New York Times'' ran on the real Kubrick. He is personally offended that the paper called Kubrick a recluse, and wants them to know that he shaved off his beard. After this chance meeting, Rich investigates Kubrick and finds a picture of him, learning that the real Kubrick looks nothing like the man he met in the restaurant. Rich then instigates Kubrick to look further into the identity of the con man.

One of the biggest scams is when Conway promises to help establish Lee Pratt (Jim Davidson) as a headliner act in Las Vegas. Pratt is a British entertainer who's had limited success as a flamboyant dancer and stage singer. Pratt is described as a "low-rent Liberace with an Elvis gleam in his eye."<ref name=plotquote>{{cite news | title = Colour Me Kubrick Review New York Times | work = The New York Times | url = https://movies.nytimes.com/2007/03/23/movies/23kubr.html | access-date = 2009-04-16 | first=Stephen | last=Holden | date=2007-03-23}}</ref> Conway makes huge promises to get Pratt a permanent seat in the spotlight in Las Vegas.

While Pratt, Conway, and Pratt's manager try to decide how to conquer America, Conway lives a life of luxury at Pratt's expense. 
He sleeps in a high class hotel consuming vodka and cigarettes until a cleaning woman, possibly under the direction of Pratt's manager, discovers a passport with his real moniker printed inside. Conway is thrown out of Pratt's life and off of a pier in a visual and musical homage to ''A Clockwork Orange''.

From there, Rich exposes Alan's lies, and Conway is sent to a hospital after an apparent nervous breakdown which (of course) is just another one of Conway's elaborate ruses. His case is published by his doctor in the medical literature and, courtesy of the British government, he is sent to the Rimini Clinic, a centre where celebrities go for rehabilitation.

Conway is shown to be living the good life, and the film ends with him relaxing in a giant, luxurious hot tub whilst the Ray Noble Orchestra plays the Al Bowlly version of "Midnight, the Stars and You" (which does not appear on the original soundtrack), harking back to the finale of ''The Shining''.

