In 2000, Dick Harper gets promoted to Vice President of Communications for the major media corporation Globodyne. He convinces his wife Jane to quit her job as a travel agent to spend more time with their son Billy, as Dick's salary would be able to cover their expenses.

However, during an interview on television on his first day, he discovers his CEO covertly sold 80 percent of his shares in the company and Globodyne is accused of "perverting the American dream" by presidential candidate Ralph Nader. Simultaneously, all of the company's stocks drop to zero, and everyone, including Dick, loses their jobs, savings, and pensions. Dick tries to confront CEO Jack McCallister, but he flies away in the company's helicopter.
 
Breaking the news to his family that night, Dick tries to assure them he can find another job as vice president. However, he soon finds that Globodyne's collapse has sent the overall economy into a recession, making it next to impossible to find a new vice president position. In addition, the television interview has tarnished his reputation as being incompetent, rendering him not hirable. Even worse, Jane discovers that, because their pension and all their savings and investments were tied up in Globodyne's now-worthless stock, the family now has no assets and face possibly losing their home.

Dick and Jane then accept low paying work, but are unable to keep their jobs as Dick is fired from the Superstore due to him pestling a customer and Jane is fired from her job as gym instructor after accidentally hitting a client. Soon afterwards, their utilities are cut off, forcing them to sell their personal property and take off-the-books work to stay afloat; the latter results in Dick getting wrongfully arrested and deported, necessitating his 'illegal' re-entry. When given a 24-hour eviction notice, a wearied Dick turns to crime, persuading Jane to follow him. After a few mishaps, they rob a head shop. They go on to have a few nightly robbing sprees, becoming more comfortable and professional, even stealing from people who wronged them during their job search, and eventually retire their entire debt. For their final heist, they come up with a complex scheme to steal from a local bank. All goes as planned until the Petersons – another Globodyne couple – make an amateurish attempt to rob the same bank. The Petersons are quickly arrested and Dick and Jane lose their chance to rob the place, but take advantage of the hysteria to escape.

Watching a news report on the arrests of the Petersons and other former Globodyne employees who desperately turned to crime, the Harpers decide to cease their criminal lifestyle. However, Dick finds that his interview with Ralph Nader has caused him to be indicted for his unwitting role in the company's collapse. Drowning his sorrows at a millionaire's club, he stumbles upon drunk former CFO of the company, Frank Bascombe. When he and Jane confront him, Frank remorsefully admits McCallister had planned everything from the beginning: during Dick's television interview, McCallister diverted all of Globodyne's assets and then dumped the entire stock, thus ruining the company and its employees and investors, and leaving Dick and Frank to take the blame, while embezzling a $400 million fortune and getting off scot-free. Frank, about to go to prison for 18 months for his role in the scheme after failing to expose McCallister's crimes, got $10 million in hush money from him.

Frank tells him McCallister plans to transfer the $400 million to an offshore account and creates a plan with Dick and Jane to intercept the transfer, rerouting the funds to an account Frank has established. Things go wrong when Dick accidentally loses the form, so they must print a new one in the bank while McCallister is there making the transfer. McCallister realizes there are errors on the form and spots Dick. Finally, Dick holds McCallister discreetly at gunpoint, demanding he sign a check, which he does. Dick reveals to Jane it was a ruse to get his signature, so Jane, an art major, can forge it.

The next day, McCallister is mobbed by reporters and former Globodyne employees, all praising him for his sudden "generosity". Dick shows up as vice president and hands him a prepared statement, which the CEO reads on live television. He is shocked to announce he has transferred $400 million to a trust fund to support Globodyne's defunct pension plan. A news report reveals the company's former employees (including the now-imprisoned Petersons) will get their pension checks from the fund, Dick's reputation is restored and he evades indictment, and McCallister's net worth has been reduced to a mere $2,238.04.

Some time later, Dick's family drives a Volkswagen Rabbit convertible into the sunset. While Billy is teaching his parents Spanish, Dick's friend Garth drives up in a brand new Bentley Azure, excited to reveal that he has a new job with great benefits, at Enron.

