While working in New York's hottest night club, disc jockey Darrell Williams is asked to DJ a party for his friend Frankie Jr.'s mob boss father Frank, whom Darrell's father worked for. Frank is planning a surprise party for his daughter Dolly, who is coming home from law school for summer break.

At the party, Darrell takes a bullet meant for Frank and saves his life. Frank takes Darrell to stay at Frank's house while healing from the gunshot wound. During this time, Dolly decides she wants to go out shopping. Due to the attempted assassination, Frank will not allow her to go out without a bodyguard. After he tries to assign her Jackie, he tells her anyone in the house is qualified to escort her, and she picks Darrell. He accepts a job with Frank to be Dolly's escort and live at the residence.

The next morning, Dolly wakes Darrell to go out. They start at a yoga class, where Darrell attracts women's attention. Dolly and Darrell go to lunch, where she meets her girlfriends and they have Darrell sit with them and give them advice about their men. After leaving the restaurant, Dolly is almost hit by a car and Darrell saves her. Jackie witnesses this and tells Frank. Frank invites Dolly's boyfriend to dinner. At dinner, Dolly excuses herself and goes to the garden. When Darrell comes home after being at the club, he finds Dolly in the pool. She invites Darrell to join her. In the pool, Dolly starts to flirt with Darrell.

The next evening, Dolly and Chad go out with Darrell as their driver and end up at Darrell's favorite restaurant. When Cherise approaches Darrell, Chad—jealous about Dolly giving Darrell attention—asks her to join them. After dinner, Darrell ditches Cherise and Dolly sends Chad home. They go to Darrell's apartment/studio and are kissing before they are startled by Darrell's cat. Darrell tries to distance himself from Dolly, due to her having a boyfriend and out of respect for her father, but he is falling for Dolly, and takes her to meet Big Momma. Darrell and Dolly go to the club where Darrell works. While they are dancing, Jackie approaches them, pulling a gun on Darrell. Dolly and Darrell leave the club and go to Darrell's friend's place, where they play poker with Darrell's friends. They return to Darrell's apartment/studio and spend the night together. The next morning, Dolly attempts to tell her father about her relationship with Darrell, but his bodyguard Fish comes in. She tells Frank they will talk later.

Dolly and Darrell leave the house and go to the spa together. While Dolly is in the shower, Frank shows up and his men rough up Darrell. When they take Darrell to their car to put him in the trunk, they find Salvatore dead. Dolly has a meeting with her father and agrees to end her relationship with Darrell. Dolly returns to Darrell's apartment/studio and tells him she is going to marry Chad. After she leaves, Darrell is kidnapped at gunpoint by one of Salvatore's men. Frank receives a call from Jackie that Dolly is with Darrell. Frank goes to the club and finds Dolly and Darrell together, kidnapped. 
Frank Jr. follows his father to the club, and activates the strobe light and fog machine to distract the kidnappers. Jackie uses Dolly to make Frank put down his gun. Jackie attempts to shoot Dolly, and Darrell again gets shot, this time taking a bullet for Dolly. Frank finally accepts Darrell and Dolly being together. At the wedding reception for Darrell and Dolly, Frank gives Dolly his blessing on her marriage to Darrell.

