Texas Rangers, Roland Sharp and Maggie Swanson question Percy Stevens about the whereabouts of his former prison cellmate Morgan Ball, needed to testify against organized crime boss John Cortland.

Tracking down Ball to a warehouse, Ball tries to bribe Sharp with a key. Instead, he takes it and forces him outside, to awaiting FBI agent Eddie Zane. A sniper wounds Swanson, giving Ball a chance to escape (Swanson is shot in the chest, but survives). A group of cheerleaders from the University of Texas at Austin witness Ball's murder. Agent Zane is found shot in the arm next to Ball's body and claims he didn't see the sniper.

Anne, Teresa, Evie, Heather and Barb are taken to the police station, where they can't identify the shooter. Sharp is to protect the girls at all times, information relayed to him by the Governor of Texas. Sharp is divorced, and has an estranged 17-year-old daughter, Emma. 

Without evidence, John Cortland is set free. FBI Agent Zane secretly works for him, so killed Ball and shot himself in the arm. Cortland reprimands him for not tying up loose ends, so Zane kills the hired sniper and searches for Sharp and the cheerleaders. With Swanson in the hospital recovering from her near-fatal wound, Sharp and two other Rangers must now protect the girls and secure their sorority house. Sharp moves in with them, and the other two move into the nearby fraternity house.

Sharp's ground rules include no cell phones and to wear less revealing clothes around him. When they ignore him, he installs an industrial air conditioner, forcing them to dress warmly. Supposedly their cheerleading coach specializing in conditioning, at a Longhorns football game Sharp tackles the opposing team's mascot when it nears them with a gun, a water gun. Other mishaps occur, but Sharp's relationship with the girls begins to strengthen.

Sharp becomes attracted to Barb's English teacher Molly, who draws his attention to Barb's plagiarism. Inviting her over for dinner, the girls coach him through it using an earpiece and tiny camera. After a bit, he turns them off and woos Molly himself. He tells the girls about his failed marriage and the way he feels about his estranged daughter. This interests Evie, who wants to write a paper on Emma. She calls her with the house's "emergency phone", alerting Zane to Sharp's location, as he'd bugged Emma's phone.

At a "spirit rally," Sharp has to give an inspiring speech. He gets more and more impassioned, proving to the girls he finally "gets it." However, afterwards Sharp finds a bomb under their van. He saves Teresa (who hadn't believed someone was after them) by cutting her out of her stuck seatbelt, so she realizes the threat  is real.

When Sharp is told Evie phoned Emma he calls, discovering Zane has her. He instructs Sharp to get the money from the safe deposit box Ball had given him the key to, neither of them are aware the cheerleaders are listening. The next day at the meeting point, Zane reminds Sharp to cooperate or he will shoot Emma. Cuffing himself to the steering wheel after leaving his cell and gun in the money bag, Zane then takes off with the money, Sharp's keys and phone, and Emma.

They get on a bus with Barb in the back. As Sharp wonders what is going on, Heather picks his handcuffs, chasing the bus in a stolen Volkswagen Beetle. On the bus, Teresa pretends to go into labor, so Evie demands the bus stop. She attempts to steal Zane's bag, but he pulls a gun, so she runs away from the bus. Zane drives away the empty bus himself.

The cheerleaders rescue Emma, while Zane attempts to cross to Mexico. Sharp causes the bus to flip with one shot. Zane begins walking to the Mexico–United States border, the border officers close it, drawing their guns. Sharp prevents Zane's attempted suicide by cop by shooting his gun hand and handcuffing him. He and Emma are reunited. 

At the end of the film, Cortland is arrested and taken back to court. Sharp and Molly are married, with Emma and the cheerleaders part of the wedding.

