Mirabelle Buttersfield is a young aspiring artist from Vermont who works behind the women's glove counter at Saks Fifth Avenue in Beverly Hills. Clinically depressed and leading a solitary existence, Mirabelle soon finds herself romanced by two distinct men.

Jeremy is an immature, socially inept, penniless graphic designer for an amplifier manufacturer and an aspiring typographer who meets Mirabelle in a laundromat. Mirabelle, aching for a meaningful connection, gives Jeremy a chance, but she soon loses interest in him after an awkward first date, followed by a failed attempt at intercourse.

Ray Porter is an older, suave, wealthy, divorced logician. He buys a pair of gloves from Mirabelle at Saks and has them delivered to her apartment with an invitation to dinner, which she accepts. Following several dates, the two have sex at his house one night. The next morning, Ray tells Mirabelle that he does not intend for their relationship to be serious due to his constant travel between Los Angeles and Seattle. Each has a different understanding of this conversation: Ray tells his psychiatrist that Mirabelle knows they have an open relationship, while Mirabelle tells her friends that Ray wants to commit to her.

Mirabelle and Ray embark on a lengthy affair, while Jeremy attempts to see Mirabelle one last time before leaving as a roadie for the band Hot Tears, but she rejects him in favor of Ray. While on tour, the band's lead singer introduces Jeremy to self-help tapes on how to better relate to women. Mirabelle becomes increasingly devoted to Ray, who showers her with expensive gifts, such as paying off her student loan, instead of genuine affection. As her relationship with Ray progresses, Mirabelle decides to stop taking her antidepressants, which heightens her depression. Ray takes her to the psychiatrist and cares for her, further deepening her reliance on him. Ray invites Mirabelle to accompany him on his upcoming trip to New York.

During a business trip, Ray has dinner with a former girlfriend who propositions him and he accepts, confessing the liaison to Mirabelle. Devastated, Mirabelle breaks up with him and abandons their trip to New York. While visiting her parents in Vermont, Mirabelle receives a phone call from Ray, who apologizes and asks her to meet him in New York. There, he takes her to a lavish party where she is the youngest guest and feels alone and out of place. At their hotel room, Mirabelle rebuffs Ray's attempt to initiate sex.

Back in Los Angeles, Mirabelle runs into Jeremy on her way to meet Ray at an art exhibition. When Mirabelle and Jeremy arrive together, her co-worker Lisa mistakes Jeremy for the wealthy Ray. Plotting to steal Ray from Mirabelle, Lisa seduces Jeremy as they go back to her place and have sex, during which she repeatedly calls him Ray. That evening, Mirabelle goes home with Ray. The next morning, Jeremy calls Lisa, but is confused when she continues to call him Ray Porter. Meanwhile, Ray tells Mirabelle of his plans to search for a larger apartment in New York in case he meets someone and decides to have children. Heartbroken once again, Mirabelle permanently ends her relationship with Ray.

After a brief period of mourning, Mirabelle quits her job at Saks to become a receptionist in an art gallery. Jeremy pursues her again, properly, and they fall in love. Mirabelle is invited to show her work at the gallery, and Ray attends the opening with his new girlfriend, a gynecologist. Ray apologizes to Mirabelle for the way he treated her and admits that he did love her; she is visibly touched by his admission. The two embrace before Mirabelle rushes into Jeremy's arms. Watching Mirabelle and Jeremy together, Ray remarks that he feels a loss even though he had kept Mirabelle at arm's length to avoid the pain of their inevitable breakup.

