The film takes place during a single day at "Shenaniganz", a franchise restaurant. Dean, who has been working there for four years, learns from his mother that a schoolmate recently graduated from college and has secured a high-paying job in electrical engineering. 

Dean's co-worker Monty takes new employee Mitch through his training, introducing him to the staff both in the restaurant and kitchen. Monty also shows Mitch the "Penis Game", where the male staff deliberately expose their genitalia to their unsuspecting coworkers, as well as the ways the staff deal with rude and entitled customers. In one scene food is sent back which the kitchen staff then gladly contaminate with spit, dandruff and other unsavory bits.

The remaining waitstaff are Serena, Monty's ex-girlfriend; Natasha, the underage hostess who shares a mutual attraction with Monty; Amy, who is Dean's girlfriend; Calvin, a hopeless romantic who cannot urinate in public, and Naomi, a constantly angry waitress. Managing them is Dan, who offers Dean the Assistant Manager position in competition to Calvin. An altercation with a customer who left a pitiful tip to Dean results in Dan demanding an answer from him by the end of the day.

As the day winds down, Dean is left on his own during the final hour of business. Two new guests arrive, one of which Dean quickly realizes is Chet, his successful schoolmate. Initially annoyed, Dean is humbled by Chet when he leaves Dean $100 for his $30 meal, rendering in a $70 tip. Chet reiterates 'You look like you need it more than me', which Dean had retorted to the earlier customer. Dean is called to Dan's office to give his decision in regards to the promotion, and turns it down and to instead return to college for a more promising future.

As the shift ends, the staff head to a party at Monty and Dean's house, where Monty refrains from having sex with Natasha as she is not of legal age yet, but promises they will the following week after her birthday. Mitch, who had been unable to speak all day largely due to Monty's interruptions, finally rants in regards to the entire staff and quits. Prior to leaving, Mitch exposes his genitals in the form of "The Goat", which head chef Raddimus had said earlier would grant him instant god-status. Monty declares his allegiance to Mitch, having now replaced Dean in his absence.

In a post-credits scene, Dan is shown arriving at the customers house who Dean had insulted earlier, incorrectly believing it was the location of the party. The customer angrily demands from Dan the milkshake he was earlier promised.

