In Moose Lake, Minnesota, a crate containing an orphaned male Spix's macaw hatchling that was smuggled out of Brazil falls from a truck and is found by Linda Gunderson, who names him Blu. Fifteen years later, Blu is highly domesticated and unable to fly, and is frequently ridiculed by the Canada geese that come by Linda's bookstore. Ornithologist Túlio Monteiro invites Blu and Linda to Rio de Janeiro for Blu, the last known male of his species, to mate with the last known female. At Túlio's aviary in Rio, Blu meets his prospective mate, the fiercely independent Jewel who longs to flee back to the wilderness. 

Later at night, while Linda and Túlio are out, the macaws are captured by an orphaned boy named Fernando and a sulphur-crested cockatoo named Nigel, both of whom work for a gang of smugglers led by Marcel, who wants to leave the country quickly to sell Blu and Jewel on the black market. While Fernando begins to regret his actions, Nigel reveals to the macaws of how his disdain for pretty birds arose when he was replaced by a parakeet on a television show. Blu's familiarity with cages allows him and Jewel to escape, though they are forced to travel on foot as Marcel had chained their legs together with legcuffs. Fernando helps Linda and Túlio search for the macaws the next morning, while Blu and Jewel meet the toco toucan Rafael, whose bulldog friend, Luiz, will remove their chain. 

Rafael tries to teach Blu to fly, with little success. They meet red-crested cardinal Pedro and his yellow canary friend Nico. Elsewhere, Nigel coerces a horde of thieving marmosets led by Mauro to capture Blu and Jewel. To help Blu and Jewel get along better, Pedro and Nico take the macaws to a samba dance party, where they begin to fall in love, until the marmosets arrive. The five birds eventually escape on a tram.

At the smugglers' hideout, Fernando, Linda, and Túlio discover the macaws are no longer there. Fernando gets the smugglers to reveal that they will use the Rio Carnival parade to smuggle the birds to the airport. Blu and the others meet Luiz, whose saliva allows Blu and Jewel to slip out of their chain. Once released, Jewel flies happily into the sky with the others. Believing that he would only hold Jewel back, Blu turns to leave, but Jewel does not want to leave Blu behind. After a brief argument, they go their separate ways.

When Nigel captures Jewel, Blu, Rafael, Nico, and Pedro rush to the parade to rescue her, but also end up captured by Nigel. Elsewhere, Linda and Túlio pose as dancers in Spix's macaw costumes to access the parade but fail to stop the smugglers in time. After Fernando fails to release Blu and Jewel, the smugglers take off in their aircraft. Using a fire extinguisher, Blu breaks out of his cage and quickly releases the other birds. Still unable to fly, Blu hesitates to follow, but Jewel comforts him before the two are attacked by Nigel. Nigel injures Jewel's wing, but Blu sends Nigel into the plane's propellers and the plane begins to fall. The smugglers parachute from the plane while Jewel falls out of the open cargo hatch. Blu jumps after her, this time insisting he won't leave her. Jewel kisses Blu in response. In his euphoria, Blu finally unlocks his ability to fly, and he carries her to Linda and Túlio.

Now a couple, Linda and Túlio adopt Fernando and live in their jungle sanctuary. Blu and Jewel raise three chicks together and celebrate with Rafael, Nico, Pedro, Luiz, Linda, and Túlio, who have set up a branch of Blu and Linda's Minnesota bookstore in Rio. Meanwhile, Nigel is revealed to have survived the plane crash, but Mauro ridicules him for losing his feathers, while the smugglers are arrested and sent to jail for their crimes.

