{{See also|The Secret of the Unicorn#Synopsis}}
In 1950s Brussels, Belgium, while browsing in an outdoor market with his pet dog Snowy, young journalist Tintin purchases a miniature model of a ship known as the ''Unicorn'', but is accosted by an Interpol officer named Barnaby and a ship collector named Ivan Ivanovitch Sakharine, who both unsuccessfully attempt to purchase the model from Tintin. After Tintin takes the model home to his apartment, it gets accidentally broken during a chase between Snowy and a cat. A parchment scroll then slips out and rolls under a piece of furniture. Meanwhile, bumbling police detectives Thomson and Thompson are on the trail of a pickpocket named Aristides Silk.

After visiting Maritime Library to uncover the history surrounding the ''Unicorn'', Tintin returns to find the ''Unicorn'' has been stolen, suspecting Sakharine. He heads to Marlinspike Hall and accuses him of the theft, but noticing Sakharine's model is not broken he realizes there are two ''Unicorn'' models. Tintin then returns home to his apartment to find it ransacked. Snowy shows him the scroll, but they are interrupted by the arrival of Barnaby, who is then assassinated while attempting to recover the ''Unicorn''. Tintin places the scroll in his wallet, but is pickpocketed by Silk the next morning.

Later, Tintin is abducted and imprisoned by accomplices of Sakharine on the SS ''Karaboudjan''. He learns that Sakharine formed an alliance with the ship's staff and led a mutiny to take control. On board, Tintin meets Archibald Haddock, the ship's captain who is permanently drunk and unaware of most of his past. Tintin, Haddock and Snowy eventually outrun the crew, escape from the ''Karaboudjan'' in a lifeboat, and attempt to use a second one to fake their deaths, but Sakharine sees through the ruse and sends a seaplane to find and capture them. Feeling cold and thirsty on the lifeboat ride, Haddock foolishly uses a stowaway bottle of scotch whisky to light a fire in the boat, accidentally causing a massive explosion that flips the boat upside down and leaves the trio stranded on top of it. The trio seizes the plane, and uses it to fly towards the fictitious Moroccan port of Bagghar. However, the seaplane crashes in a desert due to low fuel and a thunderstorm.

While trekking through the desert, Haddock hallucinates and remembers his ancestor, Sir Francis Haddock, the 17th-century captain of the ''Unicorn'' whose treasure-laden ship was attacked by the crew of a pirate ship, led by Red Rackham, later revealed to be Sakharine's ancestor. Sir Francis surrendered and eventually sank the ''Unicorn'' and most of the treasure, to prevent it from falling into Rackham's hands. The story implies there were three ''Unicorn'' models, each containing a scroll; together, the scrolls can reveal coordinates of the location of the sunken ''Unicorn'' and its treasure.

The third model is in Bagghar, possessed by Omar ben Salaad. Sakharine causes a distraction in a Bianca Castafiore concert that results in him stealing the third scroll. A chase through the city ensues during which he gains all the scrolls. Just as he is ready to give up, Tintin is persuaded by Haddock to continue. With help from Thomson and Thompson, Tintin and Haddock track Sakharine back to Brussels and set up a trap, but Sakharine uses his pistol to resist arrest. When his men fail to save him, Sakharine challenges Haddock to a sword fight with the cranes at the dock. After the fight, Sakharine is pushed overboard by Haddock and then finally rescued and arrested by Thomson and Thompson.

Tintin, Haddock and Snowy are guided by the three scrolls back to Marlinspike Hall. Haddock notes a globe with an island he knows doesn't exist and presses it, causing the globe to open and reveal some of the treasure that Sir Francis had managed to recover along with his hat and a clue to the ''Unicorn''{{'}}s location. The film ends with both men agreeing on setting up an expedition to find the shipwreck and the rest of the treasure.

