Chun-Li moves from San Francisco to Hong Kong with her family. There, she learns wushu from her father, businessman Xiang. The family lives a normal life until they are attacked one night by thugs working for the criminal organization Shadaloo, with Xiang being abducted in front of Chun-Li. Chun-Li grows up and becomes a talented concert pianist. One day, she receives a mysterious scroll written in ancient Chinese. Shortly after, she loses her mother to cancer. Meanwhile, at Shadaloo headquarters in Bangkok, Thailand, crime boss M. Bison announces his complete control of the organization before having the other shareholders executed by one of his henchmen, Vega.

The next day, Royal Thai Police detective Maya Sunee meets Interpol agent Charlie Nash, when both are called to investigate the murder of several crime syndicate families in Bangkok, with Nash determining Shadaloo perpetrated these crimes. In Hong Kong, an elderly woman translates Chun-Li's scroll and tells her to travel to Bangkok and find a man named Gen. Chun-Li leaves her home and goes to Bangkok. Living homeless, she searches for Gen for several days. A fight with local gangsters one night leaves her unconscious, and Gen appears and takes her to his home. Gen tells Chun-Li that he was once a comrade of Bison, and knows how to find her father. For the next few days, he teaches her his style of martial arts. Chun-Li also learns more about Bison, who is operating Shadaloo publicly. Holding the families of property owners hostage, he forces them to sign their land over to him. While spying on Bison's henchman Balrog, Chun-Li overhears a property owner being asked to hand over the rights to a docking harbor, allowing the shipment of the "White Rose".

Later that night, Chun-Li confronts Cantana, one of Bison's secretaries, in a nightclub. She obtains information on the location of the White Rose before escaping from Shadaloo's thugs and Nash and Maya. As a result of this incident, Cantana is later murdered by Bison. During lunch, Gen reveals more of Bison's past; he was born in Bangkok to Irish missionaries but abandoned as an infant, grew up an orphan and lived his life as a thief. He killed his pregnant wife and transferred his conscience into their prematurely born daughter. Gen is later attacked by Shadaloo troops and Balrog blows up his house. Chun-Li is later attacked by Vega, whom she defeats and leaves hanging by the side of a building.

Chun-Li interrogates a harbor employee who tells her the arrival time of the White Rose. She returns to the shipping yard that night, but is captured by Bison and his soldiers. Tied up and kidnapped, she is reunited with Xiang, whom Bison immediately murders. After Bison and Balrog leave the house, Chun-Li beats up the guards and escapes, during which she is shot in the arm while trying to protect a child. Angered Thai locals then attack Bison's henchmen. Chun-Li reunites with Gen, who heals her wounds and continues with her training.

After being taken off the assignment, Nash is asked by Chun-Li to back her up in taking down Bison. Aided by Maya and her SWAT team, they arrive at the shipping yard and engage in a shootout with Shadaloo forces. Gen enters a ship and faces off Balrog, ultimately killing him. Meanwhile, Bison flees the scene after taking a Russian-speaking girl from that ship. She turns out to be his daughter Rose. Chun-Li and the officers arrive at Bison's headquarters. The policemen take Rose out to safety while Chun-Li and Gen face Bison. During that battle, Chun-Li charges up a ''Kikoken'', shoots it at him and knocks him off before she breaks his neck with her legs.

Chun-Li returns to her home in Hong Kong and settles down, then Gen pays her a visit. He shows her a newspaper advert for an upcoming Street Fighter tournament, telling her that a fighter named Ryu might be a recruit for their cause. She declines the offer, telling him she is home for now.

