Five-year-old Krishna Mehra is the son of scientist Rohit and his late wife Nisha. He lives in the small town of Kasauli. He undergoes an intelligence quotient (IQ) test by his school principal, who suspects that Krishna has superpowers like his father. His grandmother Sonia takes young Krishna to a remote mountain village to conceal his unique abilities. Years later, an adult Krishna meets vacationing friends Priya Kalyanan and Honey Arora, who live in Singapore. Krishna falls in love with Priya.

After returning home to Singapore, Priya and Honey are fired by their boss, Nayantara, for taking a vacation extension. To keep their jobs, Honey suggests making a television program about Krishna, aware that he has abilities. Priya calls him to join her in Singapore, under the pretext that she too has fallen in love with him. Believing her lie, Krishna is overjoyed. Sonia objects, saying that people will exploit his abilities. She explains how Rohit got his powers and that Rohit, 3-4 years after becoming a scientist, was called to Singapore and hired by a scientist, Dr. Siddhant Arya, to design a computer that could see the future. This was to prevent wars and prepare against natural disasters but Rohit discovered that the true purpose was not for good. He destroyed the computer and was killed by a fire in the laboratory. Krishna's mother, Nisha, died of trauma after giving birth to him. Krishna promises Sonia that he will never reveal his powers. In Singapore, Krishna keeps his word and reveals nothing exceptional about himself; Honey and Priya are fired again.

Krishna meets circus performer Kristian Li, who attempts to raise funds to pay for his young sister's leg surgery. He invites Krishna and Priya to his circus, where a fire breaks out during the performance. To save the children without revealing his identity, Krishna wears a broken black mask and his jacket inside-out, creating the persona "Krrish". Kristian discovers that Krishna is Krrish. As Krrish is being offered a reward for his deeds, Krishna tells Kristian to assume Krrish's identity so he can pay for his sister's surgery.

Priya and Honey discover that Krishna is the real Krrish upon seeing Priya's camera footage and decide to release it on TV to make Krishna a star. Krishna overhears them talking about how Priya had lied to him and is dejected, but he doesn't hear Priya admitting that she has now genuinely fallen in love with him. Subsequently, Priya is devastated when Krishna leaves Singapore after revealing the truth behind why he wore the mask.

Priya realises her mistake and stops her boss from revealing Krrish's identity. She meets Dr. Vikram Sinha, who has been searching for Krishna for years. He reveals that Rohit is still alive; after completing the computer, they saw Siddhant holding Rohit at gunpoint. Rohit understood that Siddhant was going to kill him. He destroyed it and was taken as a prisoner by Siddhant until he started a new computer. Meanwhile, Siddhant broadcast the lie that Rohit had been killed in a fire.

In the present, Siddhant has rebuilt the computer after 20 years. He starts it to see his future and sees Krrish holding him at gunpoint. Siddhant kills Kristian, thinking he is Krrish. Krishna follows Siddhant to his remote island lair.

Siddhant kills Vikram and holds Rohit and Priya at gunpoint. Krishna saves Priya and Rohit and fatally wounds Siddhant. After Siddhant dies, Krishna and Priya take Rohit back to India, reuniting him with his mother Sonia. Rohit uses his late father's special computer to contact his alien friend Jadoo, whose spaceship is later seen.

