Speeding through New York City in a Ferrari, Dell Scott and quadriplegic Philip Lacasse are pulled over by the NYPD. Dell convinces the officers that he is rushing Philip to the emergency room; Philip grudgingly plays along, and the two are escorted to the hospital.

Six months earlier, Dell meets with his parole officer and needs signatures to prove he is seeking a job or he will be held in violation of his parole. He enters a building seeking a job in the penthouse home of Philip, a wealthy quadriplegic, who has lost the will to live. Philip, with his assistant Yvonne Pendleton, is interviewing candidates for the position of his "life auxiliary" caregiver. Dell barges in and demands a signature for his parole officer. Philip offers him the job, thinking his incompetent nature will result in his death, over Yvonne's objections, but Dell declines.

Dell visits his ex-wife Latrice and son Anthony at their dilapidated apartment, but neither is willing to accept Dell back into their lives. He gives Anthony a book he stole from Philip's library. Dell then accepts Philip's offer; Yvonne stipulates that he must show he can handle his responsibilities, and "three strikes" will get him immediately fired. Dell, having no training, is initially daunted, despite guidance from Philip's physical therapist Maggie, and quickly earns two strikes. Dell leaves to give his first paycheck to Latrice and asks for the stolen book back, but she refuses. Upon his return, Yvonne gives him a third strike for his unexplained absence, but Philip covers for him.

When Philip explains his strict Do Not Resuscitate order, Dell realizes he has lost the will to live, but when he finds Philip struggling to breathe, refuses to allow him to die. Dell takes Philip out into the city, where they share a joint to ease Philip's neurogenic pain. Dell and Philip begin to bond, and Philip tells Dell that he was paralyzed in a paragliding accident, and reveals the pain of losing his wife. Dell adjusts to caring for Philip, even modifying his wheelchair, and is introduced to opera and modern art; he creates his own painting, which Philip displays in the penthouse.

Dell suspects that Yvonne has feelings for Philip, but she informs him that Philip is in an epistolary relationship with a woman named Lily; they have never met or even spoken, corresponding only through letters. With Dell's encouragement, Philip leaves Lily a voicemail.

Philip joins Dell as he takes Anthony out for the day. Everything goes well until Dell asks Anthony for the book back; disappointed in his father, Anthony returns the book and leaves. Dell and Philip return home to a surprise birthday party Yvonne has organized with Philip's neighbors against his wishes. He argues with Dell, who then smashes various items around the room at his bidding as a means of catharsis. Dell and Philip share another joint, and then socialize at the party. Carter, a neighbor Philip dislikes, approaches him about Dell's criminal record, but Philip ignores him. Lily calls Philip, and they agree to have dinner.

At the restaurant, Philip reveals Carter bought Dell's painting for $50,000, which he gives him to start his own business. When Lily arrives, she allows Dell to leave, having researched Philip's condition in advance, but gradually becomes agitated and overwhelmed. Hurt, Philip abruptly ends the date and returns home, where he lashes out and fires Dell.

Time passes; Dell buys Latrice and Anthony a new home, and starts a business building motorized wheelchairs. Maggie asks Dell to help Philip, who has sunken into depression and driven Yvonne away. Dell takes Philip for a drive, leading up to the encounter with the police from the beginning of the film. They flee the hospital and repair their friendship. Dell surprises Philip with a paragliding trip, and is surprised himself when he is forced to join. Dell then brings Philip to meet Yvonne, leaving the two of them to reunite as he returns home to Latrice and Anthony.

