Shortly after the destruction of the Kragle, Duplo aliens arrive in the Lego universe and threaten destruction.{{efn|As depicted at the ending of ''The Lego Movie'' (2014)}} Emmet builds the aliens a heart as a token of friendship, but one eats it and demands more. Lucy and the Master Builders believe this to be an attack and retaliate, and the ensuing battle ravages Bricksburg.

Five years later, the teenaged Finn has rebuilt Bricksburg as "Apocalypseburg". Within the Lego universe, they have been ravaged by repeated Duplo attacks, and several of their friends have gone missing while searching for the Duplo home planet. Emmet remains upbeat in stark contrast to Lucy and his friends, though he has visions of an impending "armamageddon". A mini-doll called General Sweet Mayhem arrives, kidnaps all of Emmet's friends, and takes them to the shape-shifting empress of the "Systar System", Queen Watevra Wa'Nabi. Emmet tries to convince the Master Builders to help him save Lucy and the rest of his friends, but they refuse to help, believing that he is not tough enough to go through the Systar System. Emmet subsequently crafts a spaceship to pursue Mayhem by passing through the "Stairgate". Meanwhile, Wa'Nabi can seemingly brainwash Emmet's friends into accepting the joy of her world, and convinces Batman to marry her as a way to unite the Lego, Mini-doll and Duplo worlds, with only Lucy remaining skeptical of Wa'Nabi's plans.

Emmet's ship is heavily damaged and nearly collides with an asteroid field, but is saved by rugged adventurer Rex Dangervest. After hearing Emmet's story, Rex offers to help and takes them to the Systar System, and en route, Emmet tries to emulate some of Rex's mannerisms. When they arrive, they quickly reunite with Lucy and learn of the marriage plans, which Rex insists must be a front to bring on "armamageddon".

As the wedding starts, Emmet, Rex, and Lucy split up to sabotage the event. Mayhem, who insists the wedding is intended to prevent "armamageddon", intercepts Lucy instead, and explains their true intentions. At the ceremony, Wa'Nabi reveals her true form: the heart that Emmet tried to give the Duplo invaders. Realizing that Mayhem was right, Lucy tries to stop Emmet, but he crashes the ceremony. In reality, Finn, after finding that his sister Bianca had taken his Lego figures, has smashed her own creations. Emmet realizes his mistake, but is seized by Rex, who reveals he is a version of himself from the future. Rex had collided with the asteroids, and ended up under the dryer, forgotten by Finn. To ensure his future existence, he changed his appearance and created a time-travel machine to return to help Emmet but make sure "armamageddon" came to pass. When Emmet refuses to abandon his friends, Rex knocks him under the same dryer, ensuring that he would continue to exist.

In the real world, Finn and Bianca's mother is fed up with the kids' bickering, and as punishment, orders them to put the Lego toys into the storage bin; Lucy recognizes this as Emmet's "armamageddon" (as in "our mama gets in"). Both the Lego, Mini-doll and Duplo figures are put into the "Bin of Storajj" and fear they will not escape.

Meanwhile, Finn finds the pieces of Wa'Nabi's form in one of the storage bins, which is revealed to be a heart that Finn gave to Bianca five years earlier, telling her it can be "whatever you want it to be". Finn and Bianca reconcile and start playing together. In the Lego universe, this act inspires Lucy and the others to escape the Bin and help rebuild Wa'Nabi's world. Lucy then saves Emmet from Rex, destroying the time machine in the process. Emmet comes to accept he will never be as skilled as Rex, and with this self-realization, Rex fades from existence, correcting a time paradox.

Finn and Bianca's mother sees them playing together, and happily watches them. The Lego universe is recreated as a mish-mash of Apocalypseburg and the Systar System, renamed "Syspocalypstar". When Emmet's home is rebuilt, Lucy makes Emmet a gift of the original album of "Everything Is Awesome", revealing that she co-originated the song, causing Emmet to gasp in shock.

