Former soldier-turned-outlaw Colt Macready rescues his niece, Hailey, who is kidnapped by drug cartel leader Fernando "El Jefe" Garcia in Sonora, Mexico. Colt retrieves a flash drive and they head home to Santa Cruz County, Arizona. Corrupt sheriff Jasper Calloway, who works for Garcia, receives a call from him ordering Jasper to detain Colt and his brother-in-law, Walt Reynolds, for stealing money from Garcia and he also saying that Colt killed his men. Garcia and his men depart Mexico to get Colt.

When the sheriffs arrive at Walt's residence, Colt quickly hides in the bunkhouse. Jasper then detains Walt and asks Colt's sister Angela for Colt's whereabouts. Colt escapes in Walt's car and the sheriffs chase him. Garcia and his men eventually arrive at the residence. Upon arriving, Garcia coldly shoots Walt in the head after he apologizes to him for what he did. Garcia then has his men, Reina and Cruz, search Colt to recover the flash drive. Garcia's men hold Angela and her daughter Hailey hostage inside their house. Meanwhile, the sheriffs catch Colt but are killed by Reina and Cruz. After the gunfight, Colt manages to kill them both. Shortly afterward, he is intercepted by other men, Lobo and Aguillar. He manages to kill Aguillar and he interrogates Lobo about the contents of the flash drive which is information about Garcia's bank accounts. Colt then kills him and races back to the residence.

Upon Colt arriving at the residence, Garcia, learning about the deaths of his men, threatens to kill Hailey if Colt does not surrender. Colt manages to overpower Garcia's men and kills the remaining goons while Hailey calls the state police for help. Angela and Hailey attempt to escape, but Garcia catches them and holds them at gunpoint. However, Jasper appears and betrays Garcia by killing him. Colt shoots Jasper and gives him a choice: a handcuff or a shotgun. When Jasper chooses shotgun, Colt quickly kills him. Afterwards, Colt hands the flash drive to Angela and drives away in a motorcycle as the state police arrive.

