After defeating Owen Shaw and securing pardons for their past crimes,{{efn|name=FF6|As depicted in ''Fast & Furious 6'' (2013)}} Dominic Toretto, Brian O'Conner and the team have returned to the US to live normal lives. Dom tries to help Letty Ortiz regain her memory, while Brian accustoms himself to life as a father. 

Meanwhile, Owen's older brother, Deckard Shaw, breaks into the hospital where the comatose Owen is held in London and vows to take revenge. Deckard breaks into the DSS field office in Los Angeles to extract profiles of Dom's crew, and fights DSS Agent Luke Hobbs before he escapes, detonating a bomb that severely injures Hobbs. Dom later learns from his sister, Mia, that she is pregnant again and convinces her to tell Brian. However, a letter bomb sent by Deckard, who has apparently killed Han Lue in Tokyo,{{efn|name=FF6}} explodes and destroys the Toretto house. 

Dom meets Hobbs and learns about Deckard before he travels to Tokyo to retrieve Han's body and acquires the objects found at the crash site from Sean Boswell.{{efn|As depicted in ''The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift'' (2006)}} As Dom, Brian, Tej Parker, and Roman Pearce mourn Han and Gisele Yashar at Han's funeral in Los Angeles, Dom spots Deckard spying on them and confronts him in an underground tunnel, but Deckard flees when a covert ops team, led by government agent Mr. Nobody, arrives and opens fire. Mr. Nobody tells Dom that he will help them in stopping Deckard if he helps him retrieve God's Eye, a computer program capable of tracking a specific individual using anything on a digital network, and save its creator Ramsey from Nigerian terrorist Mose Jakande.

The team airdrops their off-road modified cars over the Caucasus Mountains in Azerbaijan, ambush Jakande's convoy, and rescue Ramsey. They leave for the Etihad Towers in Abu Dhabi and steal the flash drive containing the God's Eye chip from a billionaire hidden in a Lykan HyperSport. With God's Eye secure, Dom, Brian, Nobody, and his team use it to hunt Deckard down to an abandoned factory but are ambushed by Jakande and his henchmen, who have allied with Deckard, and are forced to flee while Jakande obtains God's Eye. 

As Mr. Nobody is medically extracted, the team returns to Los Angeles where Dom plans to fight Deckard alone, while Letty, Brian, Tej, and Roman resolve to protect Ramsey from Jakande. Later, Brian promises Mia that he will fully dedicate himself to their family after he defeats Deckard and Jakande, and is motivated to come home after Mia reveals her pregnancy. As Jakande pursues Brian and the rest of the team with a stealth helicopter and an aerial drone, Ramsey attempts to hack into God's Eye. Discovering the situation, Hobbs leaves the hospital and destroys the drone with an ambulance. 

After battling and killing Jakande's henchman Kiet, Brian hijacks a signal repeater tower that allows Ramsey to regain control of God's Eye and shut it down. Enraged, Jakande decides to kill Dom. Meanwhile, Dom and Deckard engage in a brawl on top of a public parking garage. Jakande intervenes and attacks them both; Dom uses the distraction to defeat Deckard by causing part of the parking garage to collapse beneath him. Dom attempts to crash his Dodge Charger onto Jakande's helicopter; he leaves a bag of grenades on the helicopter and crashes on the rubble of the garage. Hobbs shoots the grenades, destroying the helicopter and killing Jakande.

After Brian and Hobbs help Letty bring out Dom's unconscious body, she cradles him and tells him that she has fully regained her memories and has remembered their wedding, after which Dom regains consciousness. Deckard is arrested by Hobbs and the CIA, being locked up in a black site prison. The rest of the team relaxes on a tropical beach. Brian and Mia play with their son Jack while Dom, Letty, Roman, Tej, and Ramsey look on, acknowledging that Brian is happily retired with his family. Dom drives away and Brian catches up with him. As Dom recalls his memories with Brian, they bid each other farewell and drive off in separate directions.

