47 is an "Agent"; a genetically-enhanced supersoldier created by Dr. Petr Litvenko, a skilled Ukrainian geneticist. Litvenko, unable to bear the guilt of his creation, abandoned the Agent project. 47 works as a hitman for the ICA (International Contracts Agency) and has spent the last few years tracking down Litvenko's daughter, Katia; he gets a lead from mercenaries led by Delriego, who have been trying to find Litvenko in order to recreate the Agent program for their own means.

Katia, living in Berlin under the assumed surname of Van Dees, has worked tirelessly to find an unknown man and is plagued by overwhelming anxiety and a superhuman awareness of everything around her. Katia is approached at a subway station by a man calling himself John Smith. He tells her that 47 is on his way to kill her, and offers her protection, while hinting that he has information about the man she's searching for. 47 finds and attacks the pair, who are able to escape, but not before 47 grazes Katia's arm with a sniper bullet.

Smith and Katia hide out in a hotel room. He explains that he is an operative for a corporation known as Syndicate International and that the man she's searching for is her father. Katia shows him the clues she has put together and asks John to tell her everything he knows about her father. Based on the languages he knows, his age, his love of orchids and medical condition (lung cancer), Katia deduces where her father must be living. Before she can tell Smith, 47 enters, leaving Smith for dead and capturing Katia.

Once Katia awakens, 47 explains to her that she is an Agent, designed by her father to be better than even 47 himself (he explains that her name "Katia van Dees" is a homophone for her real name, "Quatre-vingt-dix"; which is French for "90"). He shows her how to use her heightened senses in combat and the two fight against Syndicate forces. They are confronted by Smith, who is revealed to have surgically implanted subdermal body armor, making him impervious to gunshots. After fighting off Smith, 47 and Katia manage to escape. Katia makes 47 promise that he won't harm her father and finally reveals Litvenko's location: Singapore. Elsewhere, 47's handler Diana, learning of his situation, contacts another Agent with a contract in Singapore.

47 and Katia track down Litvenko, who apologizes to Katia for abandoning her, saying that he only wanted to keep her safe and referring to 47 as her "brother". Just then, Syndicate soldiers attack the group and they are forced to flee. During the escape, Litvenko is captured by the Syndicate, but not before 47 slips him an inhaler.

Smith tortures Litvenko under the supervision of Syndicate director Antoine Le Clerq but Litvenko refuses to reopen the Agent program. 47 hacks into the Syndicate announcing system and Katia crashes a stolen helicopter into the building; 47 disguises himself as a firefighter to get inside undetected. The two fight their way through Syndicate security forces, and 47 is once again confronted by Smith. 47 defeats him by electrocuting him.

On the rooftop, 47 and Katia mop up the rest of the Syndicate's troops, but not before Le Clerq escapes in a helicopter with Litvenko. In mid-air, Litvenko detonates the inhaler, killing himself and the director. 47 then calls Diana and confirms his first target (Le Clerq) has been eliminated. When Diana asks about the second target (implied to be Katia), 47 drops his phone off the side of the building. As the two prepare to leave, they are confronted by Agent 48, an exact look-alike of Agent 47, who tells them "Diana says 'Hello'" before he, Agent 47, and Katia fire.

In the mid-credits scene, Smith is shown to be still alive.

