Lord Charlie Mortdecai, an 'art dealer' and swindler, is accosted in Hong Kong by one of his victims, a gangster named Fang. Jock, Mortdecai's faithful manservant, extricates his master before they can be killed.

Returning to London, Mortdecai and his wife, Johanna, consider ways to pay off their crushing tax debt. At the same time in Oxford, a painting by Francisco Goya becomes the target of an elaborate theft, resulting in the murder of an art restorer. Inspector Alistair Martland is put on the case. He, in love with Johanna since college, puts pressure on Mortdecai to assist him. Martland believes the prime suspect to be Emil Strago. Mortdecai agrees to help in exchange for 10% of the insurance money.

Mortdecai interviews people affiliated with the art world, including Spinoza, an art smuggler. While they argue, Strago arrives and shoots at them, killing Spinoza; Mortdecai escapes unharmed, although he accidentally shoots Jock in the process. Johanna meets with 'The Duke', who knows the thief and says that the painting conceals the location of a hoard of Nazi gold. Mortdecai is kidnapped by thugs working for a Russian named Romanov because they think that Mortdecai has the painting. Romanov threatens torture unless Mortdecai surrenders it, but he escapes through a window with Jock.

Martland sends Mortdecai to America to meet with potential Goya buyer Milton Krampf. Planning to sell his beloved Rolls-Royce to the American, he tries to see if Krampf is involved with the theft. After Mortdecai arrives in Los Angeles, Krampf shows him that the Goya was smuggled into the US in the Rolls after it had been stolen from Strago and stashed there.

Krampf invites Mortdecai to the party, where he will show the Goya. Jock and Mortdecai try to steal it during the party, as do Krampf's daughter Georgina and Strago. She attempts to seduce Mortdecai while Strago steals the painting. Johanna arrives with Martland and catches her husband with Georgina. Mortdecai flees to help Jock steal the painting, but finds Krampf has been murdered by Strago and the painting is gone. Strago is caught, but Georgina helps him escape with the painting. Mortdecai, Jock, Martland and Johanna find them in a motel where Martland sets fire to the Goya, causing the building to explode. It is revealed that the painting was a fake; The Duke has hidden the real one.

The Mortdecais retrieve the painting, putting it up for auction. The sale attracts Fang and Romanov, whose thugs Mortdecai and Jock waylay. In the auction room, Strago attempts to kidnap Johanna while Mortdecai bids up the 'Goya'. Sir Graham eventually wins it for Romanov and Martland apprehends Strago during the commotion. Sale proceeds pay off their debt, but they are still broke.

The painting is revealed to be another fake, and Romanov plots his revenge whilst his thugs begin to torture Sir Graham.

In the closing scene, the Mortdecais share a bubble bath while admiring the real Goya.

