Haunted by his past, ex-Irish Mob hitman Jimmy "The Gravedigger" Conlon has become an angry drunk. His son Michael 'Mike' Conlon, a chauffeur and retired professional boxer who mentors at-risk kids at the local gym, is disgusted by his father's actions and refuses to call him "Dad" or involve him in the lives of his daughters.

Jimmy's old boss and closest friend, Shawn Maguire, rejects an offer to allow the sale of Albanian heroin in his territory. The Albanians demand that Danny, Shawn's son, who took a large fee to arrange the deal, return their money now. Mike drives the two Albanian creditors to Danny's house. But Danny and his friend double cross and shoot the Albanians, one of whom is shot dead by Danny outside. This is witnessed by Mike and his mentee boxer, Legs, who captures the shooting on his phone. Danny spots Mike and attempts to kill him but he escapes. Danny does not notice Legs.

Jimmy requests Mike, at Shawn's behest, not to expose Danny but Mike refuses. As he is leaving, Jimmy spots Danny's car and goes inside to find him about to shoot Mike. Jimmy shoots Danny then calls Shawn to inform him of his son's death. Shawn sends two corrupt NYPD officers to pick up Mike and kill him, but Jimmy rescues him and shoots one of the corrupt cops before taking Mike to his family. Before they can get on the subway, Jimmy and Frank fight in a washroom until Jimmy strangles Frank with a towel.

Jimmy meets Shawn and tells him that it was Danny who was about to kill Mike, and that he might have to speak to the NYPD about his criminal past. Shawn says that the cops care nothing for Jimmy's information, and tells Jimmy he will kill Mike and his family in revenge, then let Jimmy die.

Jimmy sends Mike's family to a remote cabin and takes Mike with him to retrieve proof of his innocence, but Andrew Price, an assassin contracted by Shawn, intercepts them first. Jimmy is able to subdue him, but is wounded in the fight. Jimmy later contacts Detective Harding, a cop who has not been able to prove Jimmy's role in a long list of homicides. Harding says that witnesses claim Mike was the shooter and not Danny. Jimmy makes a deal with Harding, he will prove Mike is innocent and then turn himself in with a list of all the people he murdered in his mob career.

The two hide at the house of Jimmy's brother Eddie. An incensed Eddie reveals that Jimmy is loyal only to Shawn — he once killed his own cousin to prevent him testifying against Shawn and will do the same to Mike. Disgusted and unwilling to trust his father, Mike returns to his family. Seeking to end the blood feud, Jimmy attacks Shawn's hideout and kills him and his gang. At the same time, Legs visits Harding with the video of the murder of the second Albanian and Harding has the ballistics on Danny's gun checked to confirm the video.

Mike arrives at the cabin and alerts the police to his location. Jimmy soon arrives, and Mike finally introduces him to his grandchildren. Price arrives and attacks the cabin, shooting Jimmy and then hunting down Mike and his family. Mike is cornered by Price, but Jimmy kills him. The police arrive and confirm Legs' evidence has cleared Mike just as Jimmy dies, holding the list of his past victims for Harding as promised.

In the epilogue, Mike is back working as a boxing trainer and chauffeur and living happily with his wife and daughters. He looks wistfully at a photo of himself and Jimmy from long ago before heading to work.

