Susan Cooper is a 40-year-old, single, desk-bound CIA employee who assists her partner, field agent Bradley Fine, remotely on a mission. Fine accidentally kills arms dealer Tihomir Boyanov, failing to learn the location of a suitcase nuke from him.

Susan uncovers evidence that Rayna, Boyanov's daughter, has contacted terrorist middle man Sergio De Luca, so Fine infiltrates her home. Rayna appears to shoot him dead, while Susan watches helplessly online. Rayna then reveals she knows the identities of the agency's field agents, including Rick Ford and Karen Walker. Susan, who is an agent but has never served in the field and is thus unknown, volunteers to track her. When her boss, Elaine Crocker, reluctantly agrees, the ultra macho Ford objects due to Susan's lack of experience and quits in disgust.

With her best friend and colleague Nancy providing remote intelligence, Susan goes to Paris. Ford shows up and warns her she will fail because of her inexperience. She discovers that De Luca's office has burned down, but finds a photo of a man standing next to the fire. Ford appears, argues with Susan again and leaves. She sees the man from the photo switch Ford's backpack with one containing a bomb. Susan warns Ford in time during a Verka Serduchka concert and then pursues the man, accidentally killing him during the ensuing fight. She finds proof, on his body, that De Luca is going to Rome.

In Rome, Susan meets her contact, Aldo, a lustful Italian who repeatedly tries to seduce her. She follows De Luca into a casino, where she saves Rayna's life from a drink containing acid. She invites Susan into her inner circle, taking her by private jet to Budapest. In mid-flight, the steward kills Rayna's crew, but Susan subdues him. Rayna believes her to be a CIA agent, but Susan convinces her that she was hired by her father to protect her.

Nancy joins Susan in Budapest, using a code name of “Susan Cooper”. After being shot at, Susan pursues and catches the would-be assassin: Karen, who sold Rayna the names of the agents. She tries to shoot Susan, but an unseen sniper kills her. Susan, Nancy and Aldo accompany Rayna to a party to meet Rayna's contact, Lia. Nancy creates a diversion, jumping on guest performer 50 Cent, so that Susan can apprehend Lia, but Ford's inopportune intervention lets her escape. Susan catches her and, during a brutal fight, is saved from death by Fine, who is revealed to have faked his murder and is Rayna's lover and associate.

Rayna imprisons Susan and Aldo, but Fine visits them, revealing he is gaining Rayna's trust to locate the nuke, and he was the one who killed Karen. Susan and Aldo escape, and she follows Fine and Rayna to De Luca's mansion. There, she convinces them that the CIA has mistreated her, and she will do anything to protect Fine, admitting she loves him.
Terrorist Solsa Dudaev arrives, gives De Luca a suitcase full of diamonds, and Rayna produces the device. De Luca has Dudaev and his men killed, revealing his plan to resell the device to another buyer, then prepares to shoot Rayna. Ford distracts him, allowing Susan to kill his men.

De Luca escapes by helicopter with the device and the diamonds, but Susan grabs onto the landing gear. In the ensuing struggle, Susan throws the diamonds and the device into the lake below. De Luca attempts to shoot Susan, but Nancy, following in 50 Cent's helicopter, shoots him before he can. De Luca falls out of the helicopter into the lake.

The nuke is retrieved and Rayna is arrested, but she makes peace with Susan. Aldo reveals himself to be a MI6 agent named Albert. Ford, realizing he had underestimated Susan, finally compliments her skills. Crocker tells her she will remain a field agent, and that her next assignment is in Prague. Fine invites Susan to dinner, but she opts for a night out with Nancy. The next morning, Susan wakes up in bed next to Ford and screams, while Ford claims she "loved it".

