During a firefight in the Middle East, American soldier Johnny Talbot is captured by Islamic terrorists and forced to witness the execution of his comrade, Ray.

Kate Abbott is a Diplomatic Security Service agent working for the American Embassy in London, who began working in the government after most of her friends were killed in 9/11. While she is implementing new, more stringent rules for visa applications of potential terrorist suspects, most of her team are killed while at a restaurant for the birthday of their superior, Bill Talbot. Bill is Johnny's father, and is being blackmailed under threat of Johnny's death. He delayed attending the party to 
return to his desk to delete records of the visas he has approved for terrorists entering the United States. Kate survives the bombing when she leaves the restaurant to get a last-minute present for Bill.

An investigation into the attack reveals that the bomb has traces of chromium, leading her superior at the embassy, Sam Parker, to deduce that the perpetrator was the 'Watchmaker', one of the world's most wanted killers, known for his precision work, who detonated a bomb with similar traces in Paris two years earlier. Nobody knows the Watchmaker's appearance, as he has had lots of plastic surgery over the years. Kate's subsequent attempts to find out the cause of the explosion reveal that Bill was being blackmailed to let certain visa applicants through after Johnny's capture, and the man behind the attack was indeed the Watchmaker. Her efforts uncover a plan to detonate another bomb at Times Square in New York City during the New Year's Eve celebrations.

As she carries out her own investigation, she is attacked by Bill, unintentionally killing him in self-defense. Kate is later considered, through witnesses and footage, the prime suspect for the attacks at the embassy.

Sam Parker, who believes in her innocence, is injured in an attack by the Watchmaker. 
 
Kate is forced to sneak back into the embassy to create false passports for herself to follow the Watchmaker to New York, with continuing support from Sam and her friend Sally, the only two people who still believe in her innocence.

Meanwhile, the Watchmaker uses a Steyr HS .50 cal sniper rifle to fire an incendiary round into a sphere filled with explosive gas atop a vacant block of apartments in Tower Hamlets. The building is devastated. Later, the Watchmaker reveals that he is aware that his client's purpose for the Times Square attack is not terrorism but financial. He intends to bet against the stock market and make millions when the stock market reopens. The Watchmaker demands half the profits, threatening to cancel the attack, and the client agrees.

The Watchmaker leaves for New York. Dr Emil Balan, is motivated to avenge his late wife's death when her visa to the U.S. was delayed and she did not receive emergency medical treatment in time. In New York, he coordinates filling the New Year's Eve ball with explosive gas. The Watchmaker's job is to shoot the sphere and ignite the gas. Balan meets the Watchmaker on top of a high rise a few blocks from Times Square. The Watchmaker kills Balan, removing any connection back to him. Kate deduces the plot and finds the Watchmaker, moments away from triggering the bomb. After a struggle, she manages to throw the Watchmaker off the side of the building. He falls to his death on the stroke of midnight.

Her suspicion about Balan's guilt is vindicated and her name is cleared. She receives a call from Sam, who has recovered from recent injuries, congratulating her.

