In 1995, Russian criminal mobster, Arkady Karasov, and his associates, Leo Imasov and Yuri took over other rival gangs' sex trafficking business at the French Riviera. One of the prostitutes is a young Anna, and Maïssa, another prostitute who used to work for the rival gang Karasov killed and Karasov takes an interest in taking her with him. Fifteen years later, Anna is calling someone to start implementing their plan to bring down Karasov and his criminal enterprise. 

Former special forces operative-turned-mercenary Frank Martin is working as a skilled chauffeur for a living transporting classified packages and people for questionable clients. In a nearby parking garage, Frank intercepts and beats down a group of thugs trying to steal his Audi S8. Frank picks up Frank Martin Sr., a retired MI6 agent and Frank Jr.'s father. 

Later that night, at the Carlton Cannes Hotel, Anna meets up with Qiao and kills the accountant in charge of Karasov's money. They place a dead prostitute's body and fabricate the hotel room to make it look like there was an accident before setting the hotel room on fire and escaping. At Frank Jr.'s residence, during a dinner with his father, Anna calls Frank for a "transporter", and asks him to meet her at the Hotel Barrière Le Majestic Cannes.

The next morning, Karsov and his lady, Maïssa discover that his accountant has been killed, and a dead prostitute is found wearing a distinctive necklace that belonged to his group. Meanwhile, Frank Jr. meets with Anna, who tells Frank Jr. to meet her at the Mediterranean Bank in Monte Carlo, and Frank Jr. accepts before he leaves. 

Frank Jr. meets Anna at the Mediterranean Bank in Monte Carlo, where he is joined by three women, including Qiao and Maria. Suspicious, Frank tells the women to get out of the car, but they threaten him with a gun and a live video of his father being held at gunpoint to force Frank Jr. to cooperate. Frank Jr. drives away as Monaco police chase after them, but Frank manages to outrun the police and switch cars. Frank drives the women to a safe house and meets up with Gina and his father. Anna reveals that his father was ingested with poison and will die if Frank Jr. does what he was told since they have the antidote. Frank reluctantly accepts, and Anna tells Frank Jr. that they are going to infiltrate a hospital to steal anesthetic gas. Frank Jr. realizes that Anna and the women were former prostitutes of Karasov, with whom he shared a history.

Karasov and Maïssa went to the bank to see that the women had stolen a logbook that contained the list of every Karasov’s associates. He sees the security video of the driver and realizes that Frank Jr. was involved.

Frank takes Gina, Qiao, and Anna to a rave party club owned by Imasov. They set off the anesthetic gas to knock everyone in the club, including Imasov out, allowing them to get his fingerprints which gives them access to his bank account, and Anna transfers all the money to her account before they escape. By morning, Frank Sr and Maria, posing as the pilot and stewardess for Yuri, infiltrate his plane and secure his fingerprint to his account before Frank Jr. picks them up. Maria was shot by one of Yuri’s bodyguards, so they took her back to the safehouse to save her life before Anna revealed that the poison was a ruse. Frank Jr. and Sr. leave after the girls accomplish the job.

Karasov’s associates are starting to question Karsov about his history with Frank and seeing the girls wearing the same necklace from his group, so Karasov kidnaps Frank Sr and calls Frank Jr, demanding he bring the girls to him on his yacht or he will kill his father. Frank Jr. returns to the girls, but Gina seemingly leaves the group, so Frank Jr. takes the rest to the yacht where Frank Jr. meets Karasov. He learns that Karasov and his associates were all a part of his former black ops unit before they started doing illegal operations in a war zone, bribing some of the military officials to turn a blind eye, and Frank refused to do so. Yuri and Imasov came to the yacht, accusing Karasov of stealing their money, and Anna indicted that Karasov ordered the girls to steal their money. 

Karasov shows his account to his associates to see the money, but Gina manages to sneak aboard the yacht and transfer all the stolen money to his account. Double-crossed, a shootout occurs, in which Qiao and Maria are killed in the crossfire. Amidst the chaos, Gina steals back the money to Anna's account before Maïssa shoots Gina. Before Maïssa tries to retrieve the stolen money, Gina strangles Maïssa before succumbing to her gunshot wound. Frank Jr. confronts Karasov on a cliffside, leading to a brutal hand-to-hand combat. Anna intervenes, shooting Karasov and sending him plummeting into the ocean. 

After Karasov's demise, Frank Jr. convinces Anna to leave her life of revenge behind. One month later, Anna distributes the stolen money to the families of her fellow prostitutes and to Frank Jr. and Sr.

