Seasoned LAPD 9-1-1 operator Jordan Turner receives a call from 15-year-old Leah Templeton, fearing for her life as a man breaks into her home. Jordan calmly advises her to hide, but when the call is disconnected, Jordan calls back. The ring gives Leah's location away to the intruder. Jordan attempts to dissuade him, but he responds, "It's already done," and hangs up.

The next day, a television report confirms that Leah has been murdered. Emotionally affected, Jordan decides she can no longer handle field calls.

Six months later, Jordan is training 9-1-1 operators. Teenager Casey Welson is kidnapped from a mall parking garage by a stranger and forced into the trunk of a car. Using a disposable phone she calls 9-1-1. Brooke, a rookie operator, receives the call but can't handle it, so Jordan takes over. However, since Casey is using a 'burner' phone, her exact location cannot be determined by GPS.

As the kidnapper drives, Jordan gets Casey to knock out a tail light and signal someone. A woman who sees Casey's arm calls 9-1-1 on a phone with GPS, allowing the police to narrow the search, but the kidnapper notices the caller and quickly loses her. When Casey discovers paint in the trunk, Jordan has her pour the paint out of the taillight hole. This attracts the attention of another driver, Alan Denado, but the kidnapper knocks him out with a shovel and, assuming him to be dead, stuffs him into the trunk of his black Lincoln Town Car Signature Limited with Casey.

On the road again, Alan awakens in his trunk and begins panicking. Hearing his screams, the kidnapper pulls over and stabs him to death. When he stops for gas, Casey tries to crawl out of the trunk and yell for help. When a gas attendant sees her and tries to open the car door, the kidnapper douses him with gasoline and burns him alive. Meanwhile, the police find the kidnapper's red Toyota Camry LE abandoned in a parking lot and, using fingerprints at the scene, discover the kidnapper's identity is Michael Foster.

Arriving at their destination, Michael removes Casey from the trunk. He finds the phone in her pocket, still connected to 9-1-1. Jordan informs Michael that the police discovered his identity and have enough evidence to charge him for his crimes, advising him to surrender and not hurt Casey. Before smashing the phone, Michael responds, "It's already done", making Jordan realize Michael also killed Leah.

Meanwhile, Jordan’s boyfriend, officer Paul Phillips, and others raid Michael's home, finding only his wife and children. When an officer finds a photo of Michael and his sister, Melinda, Paul notices Casey's physical resemblance. Additionally, their childhood home is revealed by Michael's wife to have burned down, although a nearby cottage still remains. The police raid it but find it empty.

Michael begins to torture Casey slowly, strapping her to a foldable wheelchair, cutting her shirt off, and forcing her to take nitrous oxide. Determined to rescue her, Jordan drives to the cottage where she finds a number of photos of Michael with his leukemia-stricken sister. Stepping outside, she recognizes sounds from an outdoor flagpole—exactly what she'd heard in the background at the end of the 9-1-1 call. Next to the flagpole, she also finds a trap door where the primary house once stood. Jordan accidentally drops her cell phone down the cellar and climbs down to get it.

Jordan hides from Michael in the cellar. Looking around, it becomes clear Michael had incestuous feelings towards his sister and was distraught when she fell ill and died. Michael keeps a prop head which he treats like his sister. He has been scalping and killing young girls who have similar blond hair, trying to find scalps that match his sister's hair, which she lost from chemotherapy.

Jordan soon finds Casey strapped to the wheelchair and attacks Michael as he begins to scalp her. She frees her and they try to escape, during which Casey stabs Michael in the back with scissors. He pursues the fleeing duo and they injure and kick him back down into the cellar, rendering him unconscious, and instead of calling 9-1-1, they tape him to the same chair he used to torture Casey in. When Michael regains consciousness, the women reveal that they intend to leave him there to die. Casey claims she had escaped and Jordan found her in the woods, while everyone will believe that Michael has disappeared. He first insults them, then pleads that they cannot do this to him. Jordan replies with his own words, "It's already done," and locks the door thus giving Foster a taste of his own medicine.

