In 1985 in rural Kinnakee, Kansas, 8-year old Libby Day is the sole survivor after her mother and older sisters are murdered. Responding to the police's leading questions, she says that her teenage brother, Ben, committed the crime.

In the present, Libby has made a living from donations sent by strangers to "the little girl on the news"; donations are less frequent now that she is an adult and she is low on money. Lyle Wirth approaches Libby to make a personal appearance at his "True Crime" club. She reluctantly agrees to go for $700.

In 1985–prior to the murders–Ben comes to the breakfast table with dyed black hair. He has a tense relationship with his mother, Patty, and his eldest sister, Michelle, who taunts Ben about being a loner. Ben hangs out with Trey Teepano, a Satanist bookie. Meanwhile, their mother Patty learns that her farm is being foreclosed on, despite her best efforts.

In the present, most of the members of Wirth's club believe that Ben is innocent as his conviction was based entirely on Libby's testimony. Though she still believes in Ben's guilt, Libby agrees to work with the club in return for much needed money. Urged by Wirth to visit Ben in prison, Libby's curiosity about what motivated him to kill their family prods her to keep researching the case.

In 1985, Ben plans to run away with his pregnant girlfriend Diondra. Meanwhile, some young girls have accused Ben of molesting them. When Patty learns of the charges, she visits the main accuser, Krissi Cates, whose father is irate and wants to harm Ben. Patty is distraught and feels that she has failed her kids.

At home, Runner, the estranged, alcoholic father of Patty's kids, is waiting for Patty to ask for money to leave town; he owes Trey the bookie more than he can repay. Runner attempts to rip Patty's heirloom ruby necklace from her neck but, unable to do so, beats her and steals money from her wallet.

In the present, Libby locates Runner in an abandoned factory where he lives with other homeless addicts and learns of Diondra's pregnancy from him. She also locates Krissi Cates, who eventually confesses to inventing the molestation accusations against Ben.

In 1985, Patty learns of a possible answer to her problems and meets with a stranger in the park late at night. The stranger is later revealed as Calvin Diehl, a serial killer known as the Angel of Debt, who murders people so that their families can collect on their life insurance policies. Unable to see another solution, Patty goes home and hides some money for Diehl as payment.

At the same time, Diondra learns about the accusations against Ben and convinces him to flee with her immediately. They go to Ben's house to steal some money but Michelle overhears them and threatens to tell Patty. Diondra suddenly attacks Michelle, choking her. Meanwhile, Diehl has also entered the house and stabs Patty in the hallway. When her middle daughter, Debby, rushes from the bedroom seeking help for Michelle, Diehl grabs the family shotgun and kills the young girl. The shot distracts Ben from his efforts to defend Michelle, whom Diondra strangles while Ben investigates the noise.

In the present, Libby finds Diondra and Crystal, the daughter she had with Ben. Libby finds her mother's ruby necklace in Diondra's bathroom and realizes she is in danger. Crystal attacks her, but Libby escapes. She then learns Diehl's involvement from Wirth, whose club has been working on the Angel of Debt case.

Libby visits Ben again in prison and they apologize to each other. She realizes he was trying to protect his unborn daughter by taking the blame for their family's murders. A news report confirms that Diondra has been arrested. Libby returns to the family farm where she grew up and Ben is exonerated and released from prison. Libby states that she does not intend to press charges against Crystal, who is yet to be found, as she understands her actions.

