Kham is the last of a family line of guards who once watched over the King of Thailand's war elephants. Following the tradition, Kham takes great care in raising the animals and grows up forming close relations to his elephant Por Yai and its calf Kohrn. During the Songkran festival, the animals are stolen by elephant poachers with the help from Mr. Suthep, a local MP and his son. Kham raids Mr. Suthep's house and beats up the poachers. 

However, the elephants are now in the hands of Johnny, a Vietnamese gangster who runs Tom Yum Goong Otob, a Thai restaurant in Sydney, Australia. Kham arrives in Sydney and is immediately taken hostage by a wanted thief. Sydney police officers Mark, a Thai-Australian and his partner Rick corner the thief, who holds Kham at gunpoint. However, Inspector Vincent shoots the thief dead and then arrests Kham, accusing him of being another thief. In the car, Kham spots Johnny at Tom Yum Goong, where he becomes erratic and urges Mark and Rick to arrest Johnny, but to no avail. After causing the car to crash, Kham escapes and follows Johnny, who flees, forcing him to fight his henchmen. 

Kham coerces a henchman to lead him to Johnny's hideout, interrupting a drug deal. Outraged, Johnny summons extreme sports enthusiasts to fight Kham. After defeating the thugs, Kham is exhausted and falls asleep in an alley. Pla, a prostitute that Kham met while confronting Johnny, brings him to her apartment. Mark and Rick are taken off the case and reassigned to provide security for the police commissioner's meeting with Mr. Sim. In that meeting, Pla acts as a hostess girl and dancer to the two men. Mr. Sim and police commissioner are murdered by someone hired by Vincent. However, the murder is caught on the commissioner's camera. 

Vincent kills Rick and puts the blame on Mark, who is later captured. With Pla's help, Kham enters Tom Yum Goong Otob, where he fights his way into the VIP area and reaches the dining hall at the top. In the protection of his men, Johnny taunts Kham with Kohrn's bell. Enraged, Kham beats up his opponents and enters the storage area, where it contains various exotic animals ready to be butchered and eaten. Kham finds and frees Mark and Kohrn, escaping minutes before the police arrive. Vincent initiates a search for Kham and Mark, who are hiding at a Buddhist monastery. Soon after their departure, the monastery is set on fire by Vincent and his men. 

Believing that the temple and its inhabitants might be in danger, Mark and Kham decide to return. After arriving, Kham is confronted by three assassins: a fierce capoeirista, a sword-wielding wushu expert, and T.K., a giant wrestler. Kham defeats the first two, but T.K. proves too strong for him. Kham is about to be killed when the police arrive, and Mark comes to help him flee. Mark is later discovered by several policemen and sent to deal with Vincent, who is revealed to behind the murder of police commissioner. Kham arrives at a hall where Madame Rose, the leader of the Chinese gang, is having a press conference. Kohrn runs in, scaring off people while Kham engages the gangsters. Mark apprehends Vincent, who is later shot by Johnny. 

Finding himself with Kohrn in a huge room, Kham is shown the skeleton of Por Yai, encrusted with jewels as a gift to Madame Rose. Kham fights Madame Rose's men and brutally breaks many of the men's arms and legs. T.K., along with three others are called. Kohrn is thrown through a glass wall and Kham is knocked into the elephant ornament, causing two leg bones to fall off. Eventually, Kham defeats T.K. and other wrestlers by using the sharp ends of the bones to slice their tendons, where he stops Madame Rose before she can escape in a helicopter and they both crash into the room below. Kham's fall is broken by Por Yai's tusks. At the end, Mark is forgiven by Inspector Lamond and Kham is finally reunited with Kohrn.

