In Virginia, unknown assailants breach an underground NSA bunker run by Agent Augustus Gibbons who fends off the attackers before barely escaping with Toby Shavers. To find help from an XXX with more attitude, Gibbons meets his former comrade, Darius Stone, a former U.S. Navy SEAL, who is currently 9-years into his 20-year sentence in Leavenworth for disobeying orders and breaking the jaw of ex-four star General George Deckert, who is now the Secretary of Defence. NSA Agent Kyle Steele, informed that Xander Cage was apparently killed at the same time in Bora Bora, leads the investigation into the attack on the bunker.

Gibbons helps to break Stone out of prison, who then sets himself up as their leader as he mistrusts Gibbons. Stone leads them to meet Zeke, his old partner in crime, and Lola Jackson, his ex-girlfriend, who now runs an exotic car shop. Lola agrees to let Stone, Gibbons, and Shavers hide in her shop in exchange for the '67 GTO that Shavers modified. Stone then infiltrates the NSA bunker, where Gibbons had instructed him to recover a hard drive, while Gibbons returns to his house to recover evidence. However, Deckert and Sergeant Alabama "Bama" Cobb attack and apparently kill Gibbons before destroying the house to cover up the evidence. Stone meets up with Gibbons' contact, Charlie Mayweather, to get information. Charlie directs Stone to a party where Stone recognizes that Deckert's bodyguards are members of his old SEAL Team unit, before overhearing Deckert arguing with General Jack Pettibone VCJCS. Stone goes to Charlie's safe house but is framed for murdering Pettibone, realizing that she is involved in the conspiracy.

The police arrive, and Steele arrives to talk with Stone before escaping. While Shavers hacks into the Pentagon to retrieve Deckert's plans, Steele researches Stone and discovers his imprisonment occurred because when Deckert ordered his SEAL team to start a fire to clear civilians, Stone and half of the unit rebelled, resulting in Stone being court-martialled. Stone infiltrates Deckert's troops aboard an aircraft carrier and discovers Gibbons alive, being held prisoner along with the rest of their SEAL team unit. Stone realizes that the men who sided with him against Deckert 9 years previously are prisoners, while those who stayed loyal are Deckert's security. Mayweather is alerted to Stone's presence, forcing Stone to escape.

After retrieving the plans, Stone learns that Deckert is planning a coup against President James Sanford. Stone contacts Steele and shows him the plans. When Steele notes that his plans are not clear proof, Stone frustratingly leaves, to Steele's initial disbelief. During a conversation with Deckert, Steele realizes Stone was right. He finds Stone and tells him that Deckert wants to kill Sanford and his successors so he can replace Sanford as president, in opposition to Sanford's current plans to dismantle various military presences to focus on foreign aid.

Stone, Steele, and Shavers enlist the aid of Zeke and his crew. Together, they rob a civilian truck that is secretly hauling guns and equipment for the Department of Homeland Security while disguised as a cheese truck. They end up hijacking a tank, and Stone helps Steele penetrate the Capitol building where Sanford's State of the Union Address is being held. A shootout starts, and Gibbons kills Mayweather. Deckert and Cobb abduct Sanford, and with Gibbons now free they escape on a bullet train. Lola arrives with a Ford Shelby Cobra Concept, which Stone uses to chase and infiltrate the train. He engages and kills Cobb before engaging Deckert, while Gibbons flies a helicopter which Steele uses to extract Sanford. Stone jumps out after Gibbons derails and destroys the train, killing Deckert.

The story is covered up, and Deckert is buried and branded as a hero. Sanford awards Steele and the unknown soldier (Stone) the Medal of Honor. Stone is officially released from prison, and keeping his promise not to interfere with Lola's life, says his goodbyes and returns to his former lifestyle. In the now-rebuilt NSA Headquarters, Gibbons, Steele, and Shavers discuss potential qualities for the next Triple X agent.

