In 1940 New York City, efficiency expert Betty Ann Fitzgerald secretly sleeps with her boss, Chris Magruder, who promises her that they will pursue their relationship in public once he finalizes his divorce with his wife.

At a dinner, stage magician Voltan calls on Betty Ann and her co-worker, insurance investigator C.W. Briggs, to be in his hypnotism act. Using "Madagascar" and "Constantinople" on them, respectively, as trigger words to put them in a trance, the two are given the suggestion that they are newlyweds and in love before being reawakened. Returning home for the evening, C.W. receives a call from Voltan, who says "Constantinople" to put him in a trance and order him to steal jewels. C.W. does not remember these crimes after waking up and decides to investigate. He eventually notices Betty Ann's behavior is "suspicious" (it is actually related to her affair with Chris). While sneaking into her house, he witnesses Chris telling her that he has reconciled with his wife and will not have a divorce. When Magruder leaves, a distraught Betty Ann gets drunk and tries to jump out of a window. C.W. stops her and spends the night keeping her from killing herself.

Eventually, investigations start picking up evidence pointing to C.W., leading to his arrest. He escapes to Betty Ann's place, where she grudgingly hides him. Thinking that C.W. is no longer available, Voltan calls Betty Ann, saying "Madagascar" to put her in a trance and steal for him. While in that state, the subliminal suggestion of being in love leads her to seduce C.W. Eventually his co-workers George Bond and Alvin "Al" realize the initial hypnosis is the cause of the robberies. George, an amateur magician, frees C.W. of the trigger word and restores his memories. C.W. goes back to Betty Ann's apartment to find her missing. Realizing Betty Ann must have been hypnotized again, he goes to the site where she is delivering the jewels to Voltan. Voltan tries escaping, but is caught by the police. The still-hypnotized Betty Ann expresses her love for C.W. who kisses her before erasing her memories of the event.

Back at work, C.W. learns Betty Ann and Chris going on a romantic getaway and decides to resign. Chris understands and says that if C.W. leaves, the company will give him his blessing and if he stays, Chris will give him a raise. He also intends on forcing Betty Ann to retire after they get married, as he does not want his wife to be working with him. Disturbed, C.W. heads to Betty Ann's office to let her know of his resignation and say goodbye. The two have a parting drink. Outside, Al says that he will quit if C.W. does, and the rest of the staff hail him as a hero. C.W. dismisses his success as luck. George then reveals that a hypnotised person would not do anything that they would not when in a normal state. Al gets C.W. to admit that he loves Betty Ann. At Al's urging, C.W. decides to go after Betty Ann, who is about to leave for Paris with Chris. C.W. proposes to Betty Ann and confesses his love for her. As Betty Ann and Chris are about to depart, a desperate C.W. says "Madagascar". Betty Ann, who is now in an amorous state, tells Chris that she is staying and announces that she will marry C.W., confessing to C.W. that she fell in love with him the moment that they met. Chris runs to stop his divorce while Al presents C.W. with the jade scorpion as a gift. C.W. and Betty Ann decide to go to her apartment and have sex. As they are leaving, George reveals that he had reprogrammed Betty Ann the night before. C.W. eventually realizes that Betty Ann is not hypnotized and is going with him willingly.

