Garfield, an overweight, lethargic and free-spirited orange cat, lives with his owner Jon Arbuckle. Garfield passes his time by tormenting Jon and outwitting his vicious Dobermann neighbor, Luca. Aside from Jon, Garfield maintains an unlikely friendship with a mouse, Louis, by constantly sparing him, and also socializes with his fellow neighborhood cats, Nermal and Arlene.

Jon has begun habitually bringing Garfield to the veterinarian, in order to see vet Dr. Liz Wilson, whom he is in love with. Jon tries to ask Liz out, but due to a misunderstanding, Jon is given custody of a dog named Odie, who is sociable, friendly and hyperactive. Garfield, however, takes an instant dislike to Odie and competes for Jon's attention. Odie is brought to a canine talent show, where Liz is a judge. Garfield gets chased by the other dogs, which prompts Odie to the center of the ring, where he does a successful improvised dance to the Black Eyed Peas' "Hey Mama". A local television host named Happy Chapman, who is also a judge, is impressed with Odie's performance, and offers Jon a television deal for Odie, but Jon declines.

When Garfield returns home, fed up with Odie's presence in his life, he hits a ball, causing a chain reaction that leaves the house in disarray. When Jon discovers this, he forces Garfield to sleep outside for the night. When Odie comes out to comfort Garfield, he gets inside and locks Odie out. Nermal and Arlene witness this as Odie runs away but is then picked up by an elderly woman named Mrs. Baker. Jon and Liz search for Odie while Garfield's friends express their disappointment with him regarding his treatment of Odie.

Meanwhile, Happy Chapman, revealed to be allergic to cats, is envious of his news reporter brother, Walter, and dreams to perform on ''Good Day New York''. Chapman and his assistant Wendell find a notice Mrs. Baker created of Odie and, recognizing the lucrative possibilities, claim Odie as Happy's own. When Garfield sees Odie on television and hears Chapman announce he and Odie are going to New York City, Garfield sets out to rescue Odie. Jon discovers Garfield is also missing, so he asks Liz to help search for him and Odie. Garfield gets into the broadcast tower via the air vents and finds Odie locked in a cage, but Chapman enters and secures a shock collar to Odie, which, when activated, releases an electric shock that forces Odie to perform tricks.

Chapman heads for the train station with Garfield in hot pursuit. However, an animal control officer intercepts Garfield, mistaking him as a stray. Meanwhile, Mrs. Baker tells Jon that Chapman took Odie, making him believe Garfield was taken by Chapman as well and then learn Chapman is leaving for the train station. Concurrently, Chapman's abandoned feline star Persnikitty, who dubs himself ''Sir Roland'', along with the other animals Garfield finally understands that his friends were right cause he was jealous of him and realizes how Jon truly cares for Odie. So he tells Sir Roland that he is rescuing Odie from Happy Chapman. They release Garfield from the pound. Chapman boards a New York-bound train, with Odie in the luggage car. After arriving just to see the train depart, Garfield sneaks into the train system control room and switches the tracks, leading to an impending multiple train wreck. Garfield hits an emergency stop button which halts all the trains just in time, then returns Chapman's train to the station. Garfield frees Odie and they prepare to leave. However, Chapman chases them and eventually corners the duo in a suitcase area. Chapman threatens Odie with the shock collar, but Garfield's friends from the pound, Louis with his entire rat family, led by Sir Roland, attack Chapman and place the collar on his neck.

Shortly after, Garfield and Odie incapacitate Chapman by activating the collar. Jon and Liz arrive and find Chapman, whom Jon punches in the face for kidnapping his pets. Garfield, Odie, Jon, and Liz reunite and return home, while Chapman is arrested for his supposed involvement with the trains, as well as kidnapping Odie. Back home, Garfield regains his friends' respect as they hail him a hero while Liz and Jon form a relationship.

