With their wedding date six months away, Gaylord "Greg" Focker and his fiancée Pam Byrnes decide to introduce their parents to each other. They fly to Oyster Bay, New York, to pick up Pam's father, retired CIA operative Jack Byrnes, her mother Dina, and her one-year-old nephew, Jack "Little Jack" Banks (the son of Bob and Debbie Banks). Jack drives the family to Miami to meet Greg's parents in his new RV.

They are greeted by Greg's eccentric, fun-loving and free-spirited parents, Bernie Focker, a lawyer-turned-stay-at-home-dad, and Roz, a sex therapist for elderly couples. While Dina bonds with the Fockers, cracks form between Jack and the Fockers due to their contrasting personalities and backgrounds. A chase between the Fockers' dog, Moses, and the Byrneses' cat, Jinx, culminates with Jinx flushing Moses down the RV's toilet. Bernie destroys it to save Moses. Later, Bernie accidentally injures Jack's back during a game of touch football.

Pam informs Greg that she is pregnant, and the two decide to keep it a secret until they are married. Bernie tells the guests that Greg lost his virginity to the Fockers' former housekeeper, Isabel Villalobos, 15 years earlier. Isabel's 15-year-old son Jorge, who has never met his father and bears a striking resemblance to Greg, catches the attention of Jack after he repairs the toilet in the RV. Roz, Bernie and Dina learn Pam is pregnant, but promise not to tell Jack.

Greg is left alone to babysit Little Jack, whom Jack has been raising via the Ferber method. Despite Jack's strict instructions to leave Little Jack to self-soothe, Greg is unable to stand listening to Little Jack's cries and attempts to cheer him up by hugging him and acting humorously, but inadvertently teaches him the word "asshole". Greg answers a brief phone call from Roz, and Little Jack is let out of the playpen by Jinx. He turns on ''Scarface'' on the TV and glues his hands to a bottle of rum, while saying asshole repeatedly, leading to an argument between Jack and the Fockers over each other's parenting methods.

Jack begins spying on Greg, sends Greg and Jorge's hair samples for a DNA test, and invites Jorge to Greg and Pam's engagement party in hopes of getting Greg to admit he is Jorge's father. When Greg denies having known about Jorge, Jack does not believe him and drugs him with a shot of truth serum. While giving a toast, Greg uncontrollably blurts out that Pam is pregnant and that Jorge is his son before losing consciousness.

The next morning, Pam questions Greg about Jorge, and Greg promises that he knew nothing about him before the previous evening. Pam believes him and is willing to work things out with him. Jack has reached his breaking point and demands that Pam and Dina leave with him. Dina refuses and reveals that Jack drugged Greg. Everyone turns against Jack and informs him that they were all aware of Pam's pregnancy but didn't tell him due to his inability to trust people. Shocked and hurt, Jack leaves with his grandson.

Bernie and Greg pursue Jack but are tasered and arrested by Officer Vern LeFlore for speeding and not remaining in Bernie's car when pulled over. Meanwhile, Jack receives the results of the DNA test: Jorge's father is really a baseball player who also resembles Greg. Jack turns back towards the house. When Jack sees Bernie and Greg being arrested, he attempts to defend them, but LeFlore tasers and arrests him as well. Greg, Jack, and Bernie are released from jail by Judge Ira, a client of Roz. Before they leave, Greg asks that Jack and Bernie stop their feud. Jack admits that he made a mistake regarding Jorge and explains his career in the CIA to Bernie before apologizing for his actions.

Greg and Pam are married that weekend by Pam's former fiancé, Kevin, who is now an ordained interfaith minister. Jack reviews the tape to find out why the Ferber method failed. He sees Little Jack was comforted by Roz each time he cried by feeding him chocolates, Bernie angered Little Jack, and Greg spotted the surveillance camera and gave Jack a call out.

