Terry Benedict locates all eleven members of Danny Ocean's crew, demanding they return the $160 million they stole from his casinos plus $38 million in interest. He gives Danny's crew a two-week deadline to return it. 

Short by half the amount, the group schemes to stage a heist in Amsterdam to avoid problems with U.S. authorities. They are tipped off by an informant named Matsui about the location of the first stock certificate ever issued. After a complex series of schemes, they find the document has already been stolen by master thief the "Night Fox". 

Europol detective Isabel Lahiri is called in to investigate the theft and realizes that she gave Rusty the idea of how to solve a complication of the heist with a description of a similar burglary during their earlier relationship. Surprising the group at their accommodations, she warns them they cannot beat the Night Fox or his mentor, the mysterious master thief "LeMarc",<ref>{{Cite web|url=http://www.dailyscript.com/scripts/oceans-12_roughdraft1.pdf|title=Spelling of "LeMarc" from the script}}</ref> both of whom excel in the "long con", and steals Rusty's phone. She has been hunting both for years.

Danny and his crew discover that the Night Fox is François Toulour, a wealthy French baron and gentleman thief with a villa on Lake Como. Danny goes to the villa and steals Toulour's paintings. He confronts Toulour, who reveals that he had exposed their identities to Benedict (breaking the code of silence among thieves) and hired Matsui to inform the crew about the stock certificate to arrange the meeting with Danny. 

Toulour is upset when LeMarc suggested Danny may be a better thief than him, so challenges Danny to steal the Imperial Coronation Fabergé Egg. If Danny and his crew win, Toulour will pay off the debt to Benedict.

The crew begin to plan an elaborate heist to swap the egg for a holographic recreation, but Toulour gives the camera recordings from his villa to Lahiri, who deduces that they want to steal the egg through an intercepted phone call to Rusty. She then captures most of the crew except Linus, Tarr, Turk, and Saul. 

Linus comes up with a second plan involving Danny's wife, Tess, posing as a pregnant Julia Roberts in order to get close to the egg and swap it. They are foiled by Lahiri and a coincidentally present Bruce Willis, and the rest of the group members are captured. Lahiri is told that they are to be extradited to the U.S., while Linus is chosen first to be interrogated by the FBI agent assigned to collect them. 

The agent is actually Linus's mother, who organizes the release of the whole gang. She points out to Lahiri that she will face consequences for forging a signature on a Europol form to obtain the necessary arrest warrants for Ocean's gang.

Sometime later, Danny and Tess return to Toulour's villa, where Toulour reveals his glee at their failure. He explains that he stole the egg at night using his agility and dancing skills to evade the museum's heavy security. Toulour's celebration is short-lived when Danny reveals that his group stole the real egg while it was in transit to the museum, and Toulour realizes they were tipped off by LeMarc. 

A flashback reveals that Danny and Rusty had met LeMarc earlier when he revealed his confidence trick intended to humiliate Toulour and, at the same time, restore to himself the Fabergé egg that he had stolen years ago but returned following his wife's wishes. Toulour is forced to admit that Danny won the bet and gives him the money for the debt to Benedict.

As the crew pay back Benedict and promise not to perform any more heists in his casinos,  Toulour is seen in the background spying on him. Rusty takes Lahiri to a safe house that he claims has been lent to him by LeMarc. There, she is reunited with her father, who is revealed to be the man she has been pursuing for years: LeMarc.

