Todd Andersen (Quran Pender) has just signed a 5-year/$30 million contract with his hometown basketball team the New Jersey Nets. He purchases many new luxuries for himself and his family including a new house in a well-established, high-class neighborhood called Garden Ridges Estates for him and his gold-digging girlfriend Brittany (Meagan Good).

Keeping with family tradition, Todd and his parents Em and JoJo (Jenifer Lewis and Frankie Faison) decide to host a regular family reunion cookout in his new place. He does not plan for it to clash with an important business meeting for an endorsement deal which his agent Wes (Jonathan Silverman) arranges with company representative Miss Peters (Marci Reed).

The meeting is scheduled to take place in the morning while the guests are to arrive in the afternoon. However, one by one, members of Todd's eccentric family like stoner cousins Willie and Nelson (Jerod Mixon and Jamal Mixon), country cousins Jerome and Jasper (Shawn Andrew and Godfrey), wannabe lawyer Uncle Leroy (Tim Meadows), Todd's grandpa (Carl Wright), cousin Little Dee (Denee Busby) and her kids, and Em's sister Nettie (Rita Owens) alongside her husband Frank (Reg E. Cathey) and pre-med intellectual son Jamal (Kevin Phillps) begin to arrive before the afternoon, disrupting his business interview. As Em keeps Brittany busy with errands, neighbors Judge Crowley (Danny Glover) and his wife Eileen (Farrah Fawcett) are drawn to the cookout.

Meanwhile, local hood Bling Bling (Ja Rule) is jealous that his former classmate Todd has made it with his basketball contract, especially after being insulted and embarrassed in front of the neighborhood when Todd gave him a nod. He and his friend Wheezer (Ruperto Vanderpool) plan to get many pairs of sneakers signed by the upcoming star to sell on eBay and become rich. Whilst on their way to Todd's new house, they crash their car due to Wheezer, hitch a ride with a manure salesman (Vincent Pastore), and then try to steal a new Mercedes from a market parking lot, not realizing the car belongs to Brittany. After finding out, they hold her at gunpoint and force her to drive them to Todd's house.

As time goes on, Todd starts to become mainly concerned about his image as his family's antics begin making a poor impression on his neighbors, especially after Garden Ridges' security guard Mildred Smith (Queen Latifah) visits with a list of both their complaints and rules violations committed by his family. Eventually, Todd snaps and yells at everyone to leave.

Soon after, Todd's childhood friend Becky (Eve) arrives. Nettie talks to Em about their rivalry and Jamal not having plans to do basketball like Todd. Em encourages Nettie to be proud of Jamal's accomplishments in life no matter what they are. After a talk with Becky, Todd apologizes to his mother for losing his temper. She forgives him after settling her differences with Nettie and the departure of the non-relatives.

When Bling Bling and Wheezer invade the cookout to get Todd's autograph on the sneakers, the ensuing chaos makes Todd realize how much he needs his family. Bling Bling and Wheezer are defeated by Mildred, Jerome, and Jasper and are arrested by the police. Afterwards, Todd is shocked when Miss Peters, impressed by his family's unconditional love for him and each other, accepts him for the sponsorship deal. Todd then breaks up with Brittany after realizing her gold-digging ways and inability to connect with him and his family and starts dating Becky as DJ Enuff performs at the party.

A postscript reveals that Todd scored 26 points in his debut in New Jersey and he and his fiancé Becky use the car bed he originally slept in during his childhood. Jamal completed med school and broke up with Brittany three times. Little Dee finally got a father figure for her kids and moved in next to Todd. Leroy failed his bar exam for the 16th time and his golf ball conspiracy book ''White Balls & White Devils'' was a bestseller. Mildred left Garden Ridges and became a cop who gained a record of different tickets written out with the Andersons throwing a cookout in her honor.

