Eight years after the first film, Johnny English has been training at a monastery in Tibet to recover from the shame of a failed mission to protect the newly elected president of Mozambique, which cost him his knighthood. English is called back into service by MI7 under new director Pamela "Pegasus" Thornton{{refn|It is strongly implied that she became the new head of MI7 due to the downfall of her predecessor, the first Pegasus (played by Tim Pigott-Smith), who is said to have fallen from grace for allegedly collaborating (even if indirectly) with Pascal Sauvage (played by John Malkovich), the main antagonist of the first film, to overthrow Queen Elizabeth II.|group=Note}} to investigate an assassination plot of the Chinese Premier during talks with the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. He meets fellow agent Simon Ambrose, MI7's quartermaster Patch Quartermain, and junior agent Colin Tucker, his assigned assistant. 

In Hong Kong, English finds former CIA agent Titus Fisher, a member of Vortex, the group responsible for sabotaging the Mozambique mission. Vortex holds a secret weapon unlocked by three keys, held by himself and two others. Fisher is killed by an elderly female assassin disguised as a cleaner, and an accomplice steals his key. English recovers the key, only for it to be stolen en route to London. He is humiliated in a meeting with the Foreign Secretary and Pegasus when he attempts to present the key and conspiracy. He compounds his disgrace by mistakenly attacking Pegasus's mother at a children's party, mistaking her for the Killer Cleaner. 

Kate Sumner, MI7's resident behavioral psychologist, uses hypnosis to help English recall his suppressed memory of the Mozambique incident, revealing that another Vortex operative, former Russian KGB and renegade MI7 associate spy Artem Karlenko, is posing as millionaire Sergei Pudovkin. English and Tucker meet Karlenko at a golf course outside London, but the Killer Cleaner critically injures him during their game. English and Tucker bring Karlenko to a hospital by helicopter, but he dies after revealing the third key is held by a mole in MI7.

Over dinner, English confides with Ambrose about the mole, who tells him that he suspects Quartermain. Tucker arrives and confronts Ambrose about him being the traitor, but English naively dismisses him, letting Ambrose have Karlenko's key. English confronts Quartermain at a church, but realizes that he has been framed as the third Vortex member. Chased by MI7 agents, English manages to escape to Sumner's flat, using Quartermain's heavily modified wheelchair.

Reviewing the Mozambique mission footage, Sumner sees the assassin was manipulated by a supposedly-destroyed mind control drug, Timoxeline Barbebutenol. Ambrose comes to pick her up, and English realizes he is the mole and third member of Vortex. Evading the Killer Cleaner by jumping down a rubbish chute, English goes to Tucker's flat and apologizes. He persuades him to join in infiltrating Le Bastion, a nigh-impregnable fortress in the Swiss Alps where the talks are taking place.

There, English accidentally activates a distress beacon, alerting the guards to their presence. He commands Tucker to knock him out and put him inside a body bag, so that they will be taken inside. English escapes the bag and warns Pegasus of the threat, but accidentally consumes a drink spiked with the drug, and subdues Pegasus on Ambrose's command.

Assigning English as the Prime Minister's bodyguard in Pegasus' place, Ambrose orders him to assassinate the Chinese Premier using a pistol disguised as lipstick, initially designed for Pegasus. Thanks to his monastic training, English tries to resist the drug. Tucker interrupts Ambrose's communication feed with music before Ambrose resets it, exposing himself as the traitor. English resists again and shoots Ambrose, who escapes, while the drug enters its lethal stage and English loses consciousness.

Sumner arrives and revives English with a passionate kiss. He pursues Ambrose down the mountainside, and they fight in a cable car. English overpowers Ambrose, but falls out of the carriage. Ambrose shoots at him, who tries to use his spy umbrella as a bulletproof shield, which is actually a missile launcher when he closes it. The missile destroys the carriage, killing Ambrose.

Vortex is shut down and English has his knighthood reinstated by Her Majesty the Queen. During the ceremony the Killer Cleaner, disguised as the Queen, attacks English with the knighting sword and flees. English ends up restraining the real Queen, only realising his mistake when the assassin is caught by the royal guards.

During the credits, English prepares dinner for Sumner to the tune of "In the Hall of the Mountain King".

