In the second century AD, the powerful Roman Empire has agreed to form an alliance with the Han Dynasty by marrying their prince and princess. However, the Roman Emperor's son Marcus Carprenius (Gavin Stenhouse) opposes the decision as he will only be used as a pawn in the two countries' political schemes so he tries to sail away. The Chinese princess Meng Li Hua (Jing Lusi) also wants to be free and does the same by fleeing to a mysterious peninsula with her handmaiden Ying Ying.

After barely surviving a storm, the Roman fleet lands on the coast of Western India. Upon arrival, Marcus and his entourage are greeted by a local dealer who introduces them to Merong Mahawangsa (Stephen Rahman-Hughes), a smuggler who claims to be the descendant of the Greek king Alexander the Great. After watching Merong fight and defeat Sunder, a nobleman who holds Merong responsible for having an affair with his sister, Marcus is impressed and he recruits Merong to guide him to the mysterious peninsula while admiral Lycius sails back to Rome to get new ships and reward to Merong for helping the prince. Merong and Marcus arrive in the peninsula where they meet the Chinese Admiral Liu Yun (Craig Robert Fong). One night, Marcus meets Meng for the first time and they quickly fall in love as they discover that they both share the same goal of being free. The next morning, the Chinese and the Romans are attacked by a pirate tribe called Garuda led by a sorcerer named Taji (Wan Hanafi Su). Meng and Ying Ying are kidnapped by the Garuda while Marcus tries in vain to save them. Heavily outnumbered, the Chinese and the Romans are defeated. Enraged by Marcus' apparent death, Merong kills most of the Garuda fighters before he is knocked out.

Merong is nursed back to health by a tribal leader named Kesum (Rahim Razali) and Embok (Ummi Nazeera). Merong learns from Kesum that he and Taji were once students to a great warrior mage who wore an amulet of immortality. Desiring the amulet, Taji betrayed and killed the mage, and then he led a small band of pirates to raid the villages. Among Taji's victims were Merong's mother Lang (Umie Aida) and Embok herself. Merong also learns of a prophecy that a great warrior will unite all the peninsula's tribes into one kingdom to defeat their enemies. Merong then becomes Kesum's student and begins uniting the tribes, fulfilling the prophecy in the process. In the Garuda's island, Meng and Ying Ying are held captives by Taji and his pirates. During their attempt to escape, Meng and Ying Ying manage to steal the amulet of immortality. Meanwhile, after uniting all the tribes, Merong creates the kingdom of Langkasuka. Merong then reunites with Liu Yun, a recovering Marcus, and a small group of Chinese soldiers. Together, they set off to rescue Meng and Ying Ying from the Garuda. Before launching the attack, Embok confesses her love for Merong.

The next morning, Merong and his army begin their attack on the Garuda. Though heavily outnumbered, Merong sets all the Garuda ships on fire using a ship loaded with mirrors to reflect the sunlight. Taji then uses sorcery to unleash a powerful storm that covers the sun, rendering the weapon useless. Merong and his army fight the Garuda on the beach during which Liu Yun sacrifices himself to save Marcus. As the Garuda surround Merong's army, the Sino-Roman armada led by Lycius arrives and turns the tide, routing the Garuda in the process. As the battle ends in a Sino-Roman victory, Merong kills Taji in a fierce duel but at the cost of his life. 

Many years after the great battle, Sultan Mudzafar Shah, the first Sultan of Kedah, chronicles the history of Merong Mahawangsa in the Kedah Annals to honor his memory and heroic deeds.<ref>{{cite web|last=KRU|first=Studios|title=hikayat merong mahawangsa|url=http://www.krustudios.com/Merong_Mahawangsa|accessdate=12 March 2011}}</ref>

