In 2013, massive alien monsters called Kaiju begin emerging from an interdimensional portal, "the Breach" at the bottom of the Pacific Ocean and attacking coastal cities. In response, humanity builds massive robots called Jaegers, each co-piloted by two or more people who share a mental link by a process called "Drifting" to share the mental stress of piloting the machine.

In 2020, brothers Yancy and Raleigh Becket pilot the American Jaeger, ''Gipsy Danger'', to defend Anchorage from a Category-3 Kaiju codenamed Knifehead, who severely damages ''Gipsy'', killing Yancy. Raleigh kills Knifehead and pilots ''Gipsy'' solo to shore before collapsing. Traumatized by the loss of his brother and the stress of piloting alone, Raleigh quits the Jaeger program.

Five years later, world leaders decide to cease funding for the Jaeger program and replace it with coastal defense walls, since Kaiju attack frequency is increasing and Jaegers are being destroyed quicker than they are built. Although the walls are quickly proven to be ineffective, the remaining Jaegers are relocated to Hong Kong under the command of Marshal Stacker Pentecost, who plans to try to destroy the Breach using a tactical nuclear weapon, despite unsuccessful previous attempts.

Raleigh, now working in wall construction, is recruited by Pentecost for the mission. At the Hong Kong base, the Shatterdome, Raleigh is introduced to Mako Mori, the director of the Jaeger restoration program and, it is later revealed, Pentecost's adoptive daughter. Four Jaegers remain operational – the refurbished ''Gipsy Danger'', the Russian ''Cherno Alpha'', the Chinese ''Crimson Typhoon'', and the Australian ''Striker Eureka'', piloted by father-and-son team, Herc and Chuck Hansen. To find a new co-pilot, Raleigh participates in tryouts, deciding that Mako is "drift-compatible". During their first test, Raleigh falls out of alignment after reliving Yancy's death, causing Mako to become lost in the memory of a Kaiju attack on Tokyo, nearly firing ''Gipsy'''s energy cannon. As a result, Pentecost grounds Mako.

Pentecost consults Kaiju experts Newton Geiszler and Hermann Gottlieb. Hermann claims the Breach will stabilize and the Kaiju will increase in number, but it will allow the assault to succeed. Against Pentecost's recommendation, Newton drifts with a Kaiju's brain to learn more about them, discovering that Kaiju are bioweapons grown by aliens so they can colonize Earth. Pentecost instructs Newton to find black market dealer Hannibal Chau to obtain another Kaiju brain to drift with. Newton realizes the Kaiju hive mind gained access to his brain, since drifting is a two-way link, and the two newest Kaiju to emerge, Leatherback and Otachi, are sent simultaneously to find him in Hong Kong.

All Jaegers except ''Gipsy Danger'' are dispatched to intervene. The Kaijus destroy ''Crimson Typhoon'' and ''Cherno Alpha'', while Leatherback disables ''Striker Eureka'' with an EMP blast, also injuring Herc. As the only non-digital Jaeger, the nuclear-powered ''Gipsy Danger'' is sent by Pentecost to help. ''Gipsy'' manages to defeat Leatherback and Otachi. Newton and Hannibal go to harvest Otachi's secondary brain but discover she is pregnant. The infant Kaiju bursts out and devours Hannibal before choking on its own umbilical cord. Newton and Hermann drift with the infant's brain, discovering that the Breach only opens in the presence of a Kaiju's DNA.

Pentecost reveals to Raleigh he is dying of radiation poisoning due to piloting a first-generation Jaeger alone to save a young Mako, and has been unable to pilot a Jaeger since then. When two new Kaiju are detected guarding the Breach, ''Gipsy'' and the repaired ''Striker'', piloted by Pentecost and Chuck, begin their assault. Approaching the Breach, the Jaegers are attacked by the Kaiju alongside a new Category-5 Kaiju, Slattern, leading to ''Striker'' being crippled. Pentecost and Chuck sacrifice themselves and ''Striker'' while ''Gipsy'' slaughters Slattern, riding its corpse into the Breach. Raleigh ejects Mako from ''Gipsy'', manually triggers ''Gipsy'''s nuclear reactor core's self-destruct, and ejects himself before it explodes and seals the Breach. Raleigh and Mako's escape pods surface in the Pacific Ocean; they embrace as rescue helicopters arrive.


