Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark have settled into a life of material comfort and emotional unease back in District 12 following their joint victory in the 74th Hunger Games{{efn|as depicted in The Hunger Games (film)}}. While they enjoy material comfort, Katniss is haunted by trauma from the Games and remains emotionally distant from Peeta. President Snow visits Katniss and informs her that her actions in the Games have ignited uprisings in Panem. He demands that she and Peeta maintain a facade of love during the Victory Tour to quell the rebellion, threatening the lives of District 12 residents otherwise.

As the Victory Tour begins, Katniss and Peeta's speeches only spark a deadly response from the Capitol, leading to further unrest across the districts. To maintain the charade, Katniss and Peeta announce their engagement and attempt to convince the Capitol of their love. However, President Snow remains unconvinced. Katniss also meets the enigmatic new head Gamemaker Plutarch Heavensbee.  

Upon returning home, Katniss witnesses the brutal actions of the Capitol's Peacekeepers, who are suppressing the population. Gale is publicly whipped after trying to stop them from killing civilians; leading to a confrontation that results in Katniss, Peeta, and Haymitch's involvement. President Snow sees the victors as a threat and plots to eliminate them.  

The 75th Hunger Games, known as the Quarter Quell, is announced, and previous victors are selected as tributes. On Reaping Day, Haymitch's name is drawn, but Peeta immediately volunteers to take his place. For her pre-Games interview, Katniss wears a wedding dress, as ordered by Snow, but her stylist Cinna sets it to transform into a symbol of a mockingjay. Peeta lies during his interview, claiming he and Katniss are married and expecting a child, further inciting protests. Before entering the arena, Katniss witnesses the beating of her stylist, Cinna, for his role in altering her dress. 

In the Games, Katniss and Peeta ally themselves with District 4 tributes, Finnick Odair and his elderly mentor Mags, facing various challenges, including a poisonous fog in which Mags sacrifices herself so that Finnick can help Peeta, and mutant creatures such as mandrills. 

The group escapes to the beach, where they meet up with Beetee and Wiress, tributes from District 3, and District 7 tribute Johanna Mason. They discover that the arena is designed like a clock, with hazards occurring at regular intervals. Wiress is killed by Gloss, one of the Careers from District 1, before Katniss kills him while Johanna kills his sister, Cashmere.

Beetee suggests luring the rest of the Careers to the wet beach and electrocuting them, taking advantage of the lightning that strikes every 12 hours. The group separates to prepare the trap, laying down a wire from the tree to the beach. When District 2 tributes Brutus and Enobaria emerge, Johanna stuns Katniss, cuts the tracker out of her arm, and flees. Katniss finds an unconscious Beetee, who has seemingly been electrocuted by touching the arena's force field. Unable to find Peeta, and hearing a cannon, Katniss almost kills Finnick, thinking he betrayed them, but he reminds her to "remember who the real enemy is". Katniss attaches the wire to an arrow and shoots it into the arena roof just as lightning strikes, conducting along the wire, and causing the arena shields and computer systems to fail. Katniss is knocked unconscious by the lightning strike and is picked up by a hovercraft.

Katniss reunites with Haymitch, Finnick, a still-unconscious Beetee, and Heavensbee, who is revealed to be a rebel against Snow. Haymitch tells her they are bound for District 13, headquarters of the new rebellion. He reveals that half the tributes were in on a plan to rescue Katniss, a symbol of the growing rebellion, but Peeta and Johanna have been captured by the Capitol without her knowing due to Snow watching her. An enraged Katniss is sedated after attempting to attack Haymitch for violating his promise to save Peeta. She awakens to find Gale by her side, who reassures her that her family is safe, but District 12 has been destroyed by the Capitol.

