In 1431 Siam, during the reign of Borommarachathirat II of the Ayutthaya Kingdom, Tien is the young son of a noble family, whose father Lord Sihadecho sends him to learn dance in a remote village under Master Bua instead of making him a warrior. Sihadecho wants Tien to be safe from the commander of the Ayutthaya royal guard Lord Rajasena, who had plotted against his family. Although the young Tien disdaines their peaceful life, he eventually befriended an orphan girl named Pim. However, Lord Sihadecho gets betrayed by one of their own guards, who attempts to kidnap Tien, but the boy manages to flee with a loyalist's help. 

At the same time, Sihadecho and his household are massacred by Lord Rajasena and a mysterious masked assassin. Tien is forced to flee from enemy soldiers and manages to escape to the forest, where he is captured by slave traders. Tien's resistance leads the traders to throw him into a pool with a Siamese crocodile, but a band of bandits and martial artists called the Pha Beek Khrut ("Garuda Wing Cliff"), attacks the traders. Chernang, who is the leader of the gang, saves Tien from the crocodile after getting intrigued by his physical prowess and sheer willpower. They take him to their village, where their soothsayer claims that Tien is destined to become a great warrior and Chernang offers him to become one of them, which Tien accepts.

Years later, Tien is subjected to necessary tests in order to become a true member of the Pha Beek Khrut. After Tien passes his last test, Chernang proclaims him as his adopted son and heir and Tien subsequently becomes the field leader of the bandits. Later, Tien tracks down his old slave traders and thrashes them, where he throws their leader to the crocodiles as he previously did to him. Tien makes a blood oath to avenge his family, which Chernang encourages him to fulfill, promising him to make him their new leader upon his return. Tien travels alone to Rajasena's palace, where the lord is hosting a party to proclaim his power. After a dance coincidentally performed by a grown-up Pim, Tien sneaks in dressed as a khon dancer himself and attacks Rajasena, apparently cutting the treacherous lord down.

Tien returns to the Pha Beek Khrut village, but he finds it empty and is instead confronted by the masked assassin that killed his father, whom Tien attacks, but more masked attackers emerges and Tien eventually overcomes his enemies with the help of an elephant and his skills. However, Tien meets his match at the hands of a final opponent named Bhuti Sangkha ("Crow Ghost"), a sinister yet formidable martial artist. Bhuti defeats Tien and takes the elephant away, leaving him to be submitted by Lord Rajasena and his army. The lord turns out to have survived the assassination thanks to hidden armor, and reveals that the masked assassin is none other than Chernang, who must now finish his job from years ago in exchange for Rajasena pardoning his bandits.

Tien reluctantly fights Chernang, who pins Tien down and acknowledges him as his son and asks him to accept his own life to avenge his father. Chernang then causes the blade of Tien's sword to snap and slash across his throat, killing himself. Exhausted and devastated, Tien collapses on the ground surrounded by the soldiers, where Rajasena orders Tien to be slowly tortured to death. In a voiceover, Tien suffers this fate due to his bad karma, but adds that he will find a way to cheat death. An ambiguous scene shows Tien with a fully-grown beard standing in front of the Ong Bak Buddha statue.

