Margot Hayes, a realtor, and Griffin Reed, a lawyer, live in very similar homes, at very similar street addresses, in similarly named communities. On December 30, Margot hopes to be proposed to by her boyfriend Kip, so that she might go to her sister's wedding engaged. However, when it does not happen, she walks out.

Meanwhile, in the same restaurant, Griffin tries to propose to his girlfriend, Instagram influencer Clementine. However, she insists he do it again for her publicly the next night. He then gets day drunk with his buddies, and when they order a taxi for him, they give the driver the wrong address—Margot's, as hers is very similar to his.

Griffin, opening the door with the key left under Margot's flower pot, notices that the cat looks different and the apartment looks strange. However, he is too drunk to care, and falls asleep. Margot comes home to find a naked stranger in her bed.

Kip visits her apartment to pick up his tux and sees Griffin putting on his clothes and gets upset, threatening Griffin and leaves. Margot, needing someone to accompany her to her sister's wedding, convinces Griffin to join her, as no one in her family has seen Kip or knows what he looks like.

The pair goes to the wedding together. Along the way, they meet an older married couple and make friends with them. The woman gives Margot her pink coat, telling her that thanks to the coat, her husband was able to find her after nearly losing her.

After several complications, Margot and Griffin arrive at the wedding where Griffin (claiming to be Kip) becomes an unexpected hit.  Unfortunately for Margot, the real Kip shows up, and the whole charade is ruined. Margot and Griffin seem to go back to their respective partners, but realize that they truly care for each other. Margot comes to Griffin's home with the bag that he left at her place. She shows him an old tattoo of a griffin on her shoulder and they fall on his bed together, kissing. A crying Clementine shows up, prompting Margot to leave.

The next day, Griffin meets his parents at the same café where he and Margot had met, and they comfort him, saying he has yet to find his true love. Suddenly, he sees the pink coat, and with it, Margot. They share a kiss.

