In 1918, Burt Berendsen was sent by his estranged wife's parents to fight in World War I. While stationed in France, Burt befriends African-American soldier Harold Woodman. After sustaining injuries in battle, Burt and Harold are nursed back to health by Valerie Bandenberg, an eccentric nurse who makes art out of shrapnel removed from the soldiers, whom they befriend as well. After the war, the three live together in Amsterdam until Burt returns to his wife and Harold leaves after ending a brief relationship with Valerie.

Fifteen years later, Burt has opened his medical practice catering to veterans of the war, and remains friends with Harold, who is now a lawyer. However, they have not heard from Valerie since they left Amsterdam. Harold asks Burt to perform an autopsy on Bill Meekins, their old commander, at the behest of Meekins' daughter Elizabeth, who believes that he was murdered. Burt performs the autopsy with the help of medical examiner, Irma St. Clair. The autopsy reveals a considerable amount of poison in Meekins' stomach. Burt and Harold meet with Elizabeth to talk about the autopsy results, though she is suddenly killed when a hitman pushes her into traffic. Burt and Harold are framed for her death, and flee as the police arrive.

Burt and Harold attempt to find out who told Elizabeth to hire them in order to clear their names. This leads them to wealthy textile heir, Tom Voze, his patronizing wife Libby, and Tom's sister, Valerie. They learn that Valerie was the one who convinced Elizabeth to hire them, knowing that they were trustworthy. Valerie is under constant supervision by Tom and Libby, who claim that she suffers from a nerve disease and epilepsy. It is later revealed that they were poisoning Valerie to keep her compliant. Burt and Harold talk with Tom, who suggests they talk to General Gil Dillenbeck, a famous and decorated war veteran who had been Meekins' friend.

While Burt attempts to contact the General, Irma visits him at his medical practice and reveals that she was attacked while trying to bring him the autopsy report and the attacker took the paper from her. After Burt tends to Irma's injuries, they share a kiss. Meanwhile, Harold and Valerie spend the day at her home, where they notice the hitman, Tarim Milfax, has been watching the house. They follow him to a forced sterilization clinic owned by a mysterious organization known as the "Committee of the Five". After a fight with Milfax, Harold and Valerie reunite with Burt. Valerie takes them to the Waldorf Astoria New York, where they meet Paul Canterbury and Henry Norcross, Valerie's benefactors from Amsterdam who are secretly spies in the intelligence community. Paul and Henry explain that the Committee of the Five is a cabal in the US with ties to Germany planning to overthrow the American government and that Dillenbeck can help foil their plot.

The trio meet with Dillenbeck, who is offered a large sum of money from a man on behalf of an unnamed benefactor to deliver a speech advocating for veterans to forcibly remove U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt and install Dillenbeck as a puppet dictator. The General agrees to help the trio foil the plot and they all plan veterans reunion gala to draw out whoever is behind the plot. At the gala, after General Dillenbeck reads his speech instead of the one he was paid to read, Milfax attempts to shoot him, but Harold and Valerie and then Burt manage to stop him in time. Milfax is arrested and the Committee of the Five is revealed to be four industry leaders, including Tom, who is fanatically obsessed with Benito Mussolini and Adolf Hitler, and intend to turn the United States into a fascist country. Tom and the other leaders are arrested by the police, but they do not stay in jail long and slander General Dillenbeck in the press following their release. General Dillenbeck testifies about the incident to Congress, Harold and Valerie leave the country to be together, and Burt plans to reopen his medical practice and pursue a relationship with Irma.

