Joe Valencia is a comedian and struggling actor in Los Angeles, known for his beer commercial catch-phrase, "Let's Get This Party Started". He is also a single father to his son Junior, though his work schedule often comes first.

Joe's agent Nick obtains a sitcom audition, but when the producer learns he is half-Filipino, the role turns stereotypical. The audition also causes Joe to miss a school meeting with Junior and his teachers. To compensate, Joe resolves to take Junior with him to his family's Easter Sunday celebration in Daly City for the weekend.

Joe and Junior arrive and meet with Joe's mom, Susan, and his sister, Regina, his cousin Eugene, his aunt Yvonne, uncles Arthur and Manny, and aunt Theresa (who is feuding with Susan). The family goes to church, where Joe learns Eugene wasted an investment meant for a taco truck on a "hype truck" selling useless merchandise.

Joe learns Eugene borrowed from a gangster named Dev in order to pay for the hype truck merchandise. They attempt to get money from a wealthy acquaintance Marvin by pawning off Manny Pacquiao's boxing gloves from his fight with Oscar De La Hoya, which Eugene stole from Dev. Marvin refuses, knowing Dev's ruthless reputation.

Joe and Eugene go to the mall with Junior, who runs into Tala, his crush, at her workplace. They find out Tala's boss is Dev, who spots them and chases them out of the mall. Joe and Eugene go to a mysterious man, "The Jeweler", who can help buy Pacquiao’s gloves. The Jeweler ends up being Lou Diamond Phillips, who agrees to give them the money they seek later.

On Easter Sunday, the family is preparing for dinner, but Nick informs Joe that he booked him a flight back to Los Angeles to meet with a producer for the show, and assures the role is guaranteed if Joe plays to stereotype, but Joe refuses. The flight also happens to be at the same time as the dinner. Junior invites Tala to the dinner, and everyone teases Junior about possibly having a girlfriend. Susan and Theresa keep bickering, which is revealed to have begun when Theresa called Susan a bad mother for supposedly not taking care of Joe. As Joe calms them down, Junior sees Joe's texts from Nick about the show, prompting Junior to call Joe a hypocrite. He storms out, and Tala runs after him. As the dinner grows more tense, Joe gives a speech about family and brings everyone together to sing karaoke, cheering everyone up. Susan and Theresa appear to reconcile, just as Dev and his goons arrive.

Susan and Theresa try to pay Dev back, but Dev takes Junior as a hostage. Arthur distracts Dev while Joe puts on the gloves and runs outside. He punches Dev, knocking him out, and they wait for the police. Vanessa, Joe's ex and now an officer, shows up to arrest Dev. When the family goes back inside, Joe finds that his video chat was on and Nick and the producer were watching. Before Joe can explain himself, he suffers a panic attack and faints.

Joe wakes up in the hospital with the rest of the family at his bedside. The producer tells Joe she wants to create a sitcom centered around Joe and his family rather than the one from the audition. Joe agrees, and the family celebrates. Later, Joe's family is seen giving pointers to the cast of Joe's new show.

