Denver is experiencing a large drought caused by ManBearPig, resulting in drying streams and discussions about reinstituting watering restrictions. The protesting citizens, including waterpark owner Pi Pi, are told that the city's water sees use in agriculture.

In South Park, Stan Marsh and Tolkien Black are concerned about the former's father, Randy, who is derisively referred to as "Karen". Randy and Steve Black's arguing is interrupted by a Denver water commissioner examining the water supplies at their respective farms. Meanwhile, Eric Cartman is despondent over residing in the abandoned hot dog stand. He is intrigued when he notices construction on a house across the street for golf course owner Talnua Cussler. Cartman suggests to his mother, Liane, that she get breast implants to attract Cussler. Liane refuses and informs Cartman of the cost of such a surgery.

Steve learns that he can sell some of his water supply if the stream reaches Denver's reservoir. At Stan and Tolkien's suggestion, they craft a small boat and send it downstream. The experiment is successful, and Steve begins accepting subscriptions to his streaming service, including Pi Pi. When Steve is told to send boats downstream daily, he pays Stan and Tolkien to increase their production. Randy becomes frustrated at Steve's success, so Stan and Tolkien agree to build him craft boats as well. They recruit Kyle Broflovski, Kenny McCormick and Butters Stotch to help them as demand increases; they initially refuse to recruit Cartman, but relent when Cartman tells them of the surgery. Cussler offers Stan and Tolkien $15,000 for 10,000 boats, thus covering the surgery's cost. Cartman tries to surprise Liane with the surgery, but she stands by her earlier decision, no longer giving in to his demands. He threatens to have the surgery done to himself, but Liane remains unfazed, allowing the surgery to proceed.

When Steve sees a report about ManBearPig's environmental damage, he hikes up the mountains to see for himself. He approaches a dying real estate agent, who tells Steve that a large swath of land near the streams has been sold to a wealthy buyer. When Randy sails one of his boats downstream, it is sunk by Cussler Industries boats. Randy confronts Stan about Cussler's boats and demands that he end their deal. When they visit Cussler's house, they find that he was killed by ManBearPig, and Randy wonders if Stan is in danger. At Pi Pi's Splashtown, Steve tells Pi Pi that he will have to cancel the waterpark's streaming rights to provide water to his farm. Pi Pi refuses, revealing that he is collaborating with the water commissioner and ManBearPig. Steve realizes that Pi Pi purchased the land in the mountains when ManBearPig attacks, stabbing Steve and throwing him out a window down a water slide. Pi Pi later reveals to the water commissioner his plan to replace all of Denver's water with his park's urine-contaminated water. He betrays the commissioner and has ManBearPig attack him in a similar fashion to Steve.

At school, Stan warns the others of Cussler's death when Cartman arrives with his breast implants. Tolkien's mother, Linda, calls him to inform him of Steve's disappearance. The people of Denver waste their water supply as the reservoir is slowly draining, while Randy investigates Cussler and the commissioner's histories.

