Jodi's newfound fame and new desire to get a part in the spring musical, however, prove to be huge roadblocks in her otherwise smooth relationship with Dunkleman. She finds herself fighting her own fears and dealing with anxiety attacks. After landing the lead part of Kim in ‘Bye Bye Birdie’, Jodi is bewildered. Her insecurities are calling to her through a voice within her head. Tommy plays the lead opposite Jodi in the production and is a possible new love interest.

Jodi deals with typical adolescent issues. She carries a lot of weight on her shoulders between the boy she's dating, her friendships, bullying, the musical, and her uncomfortable parents. She is under a great deal of stress and feels completely overwhelmed.

By focusing on her confidence, Jodi eventually discovers a means to filter out that negative voice. She makes the decision to govern her mind rather than the other way around. Her parents go above and beyond to ensure that their children succeed.

Meanwhile, others are struggling with their own insecurities, while Jodi is battling negative thoughts in her head. Harper, Jodi's sister, is attempting to prove that she is capable of more than just competing in beauty pageants. Fareeda wishes for her parents to believe in her goal of becoming a fashion designer. Dunkleman's connection with Jodi is often questioned.

Jodi's negative inner voice that tells her she's not good enough has been plaguing her since the beginning of rehearsals. And her bully Kimmy, who she beat for the lead role, is now determined to ensure Jodi flakes out.

Kimmy wants to enlist Schnipper in her plots, but he refuses as he has a crush on Jodi since their kiss in the first film. Kimmy finds out that she doesn't have to do much to upset Jodi, so her first week of rehearsals doesn't go as planned, despite Tommy's assurances.

The strain eventually takes its toll on Jodi's relationship when Jack, who, after promising her she can skip their anniversary dinner to rehearse, becomes upset when she actually does. They part soon after, and Jodi becomes close to Tommy, with whom she shares a kiss one night.

Jodi starts to reconcile with Jack, but when she admits that she kissed someone else, Jack reacts angrily, and they officially break up. He makes a contract with Stig's sister Stella, who is going through her own break-up, and swears to never see her again.

Jodi participates in the pre-show “burning ceremony”, which is meant to purge the cast of any negativity before their performance. She intends to set fire to the shoes Jack gave her in the first film, but she changes her mind halfway through. Kimmy is the one who saves them from the fire, which marks the beginning of her bully's redemption.

Despite Tommy's interest in her, Jodi admits that she is still not over Jack, and they agree to merely be friends. Jodi gives Fareeda her blessing to date Stig at the pre-opening night celebration, and Jack appears to give Jodi a pep talk. Stella also gives him a long-overdue scolding for his reaction to Jodi's kiss with Tommy.

Despite her parents’ guidance on how to deal with nerves, Jodi is still having trouble with her inner voice on the opening night of the show. Kimmy completes her redemption by declining Jodi's offer to take her place on stage, instead telling Jodi that she will stay in the wings and give her cues if she forgets anything.

Opening night is a success, and after the show, Jodi finally silences her inner critic by reminding herself, that she is good enough to do this. When Jack arrives, he discloses that he has been photographing in the lighting booth all night. He confesses his love for Jodi, which she reciprocates, and they reconcile and kiss.

