In the 24th century C.E., Yokohama has grown massively and is under the control of Mayor Woo. As mayor, Woo has begun forcibly sterilizing the local population, forcing all citizens to take birth control pills. His laws are enforced by a loyal officer, Takeshi Honda. Ryo, an aimless drifter, is attacked by government forces; during the ensuing fight, Honda realises that Ryo is a replicant left over from a civilization ending war. Ryo eludes capture and follows a child who had previously been asking him for food back to the base of a rebel outfit intent on ending Woo's tyrannical regime. Some of the rebels had been captured earlier and Woo has spent many hours trying to persuade them to give up their children and turn against the rebels. With Ryo on their side and believing that now is the perfect time to strike, the rebels attempt to kidnap Mayor Woo at a public event in order to ransom him for their captured friends. During the attempted kidnapping internal divisions boil over when some members of the group start stealing valuables from guests, Woo signals his body guards and they begin fighting back. The mission aborted, the group of rebels make their way outside and commandeer a school bus, realizing that one child, Honda's son, remains on board. Returning to their base, the child who met Ryo befriends him. The group's internal divisions end in a coup where a group ousts the leader before themselves being incapacitated or killed by Ryo, leaving only a skeleton force.

Seeing Honda's son as akin to a grandson, Woo agrees to trading him back for the prisoners of the rebels. They agree to meet and Honda's son is returned as are the prisoners. One couple, however, made a deal with Woo, and upon leaving the prisoner transport system, opens fire on the group, killing most of them - including the leader. Ryo, the boy and a surviving rebel go into hiding, leaving another rebel alone to wander off. They come across a movie theater and the boy manages to sneak Honda's son out to join them. Honda tracks them down and fights with Ryo until his son appears and urges him to stop. He takes him home and both men agree to fight again some other time. Honda returns home and discovers that his wife is a replicant, confronting Woo he discovers that he is also a replicant, as is his son. As part of his programming he is unable to attack Woo who reveals that his plan to sterilize everyone has grown from the belief that the "Old World" was limiting and unnecessary. Leaving, Honda meets up with Ryo where they fight as images from the previous two ''Dead or Alive'' films are intercut. They accidentally merge into a penis-headed mecha and agree to stop fighting to take down Mayor Woo. They take flight and the film cuts to Woo in shock whilst in the middle of having sex.

