Libria, a totalitarian city-state established by survivors of World War III, blames human emotion as the cause for the war. Any activity or object that stimulates emotion is strictly forbidden. Those in violation are labelled "Sense Offenders" and sentenced to death. The population is forced to take a daily injection of "Prozium II" to suppress emotion. Libria is governed by the Tetragrammaton Council, led by "Father", who communicates propaganda through giant video screens throughout the city. At the pinnacle of law enforcement are the Grammaton Clerics, trained in the martial art of gun kata. Clerics frequently raid homes to search for and destroy illegal materials – art, literature and music – executing violators on the spot. A resistance movement, known as the "Underground", emerges to topple Father and the Tetragrammaton Council.

thumb|left|The flag of Libria. The four Ts on the flag represent the Tetragrammaton Council.
In 2072, John Preston is a high-ranking Cleric whose wife, Viviana, was executed as a Sense Offender, leaving him as a single father of two. Following a raid, Preston notices that his partner, Errol Partridge, saves a book of poems by W. B. Yeats instead of turning it in for incineration. He follows Partridge to the Nether – a term for regions outside the city – and finds him reading the book. After seeing Preston, Partridge says that he gladly pays the heavy price of feeling emotion; Preston executes him as Partridge slowly reaches for his gun.

Preston accidentally breaks his morning vial of Prozium II, and plans to get a replacement later, but the factory he goes to is temporarily closed due to trouble caused by the Underground. Preston has to leave shortly after he finds the factory is closed, and experiences brief episodes of emotion. He then intentionally skips further doses, hiding them behind the mirror in his bathroom. Partridge is replaced with an ambitious, career-conscious Andrew Brandt, who expresses admiration for Preston's "uncompromising" work as a Cleric. On a raid, they arrest a Sense Offender, Mary O'Brien. To Brandt's surprise, Preston prevents him from executing O'Brien, saying she should be kept alive for interrogation. Brandt grows suspicious of Preston's hesitation. On a different raid, a large following of the Underground is found in a group of buildings, and Preston decides to take a risk by leading the Underground members out of the building. He accidentally leads them into a room where Brandt and other exterminators are waiting. The Underground members are lined up against the wall. Preston stalls for time by offering Brandt the honor of killing the offenders, and switches their guns so that Brandt is using Preston's, and Preston has Brandt's. The Underground members are killed on the spot. On another raid, loud dogs are discovered in a pen, kept by members of the Underground. Exterminators enter the pen and begin shooting the dogs, and Preston flinches a bit each time one is killed. One of the dogs tries to escape, and Preston grabs it before it gets away. Brandt tells him to throw it back into the pen to be killed, but Preston tells him the dog should be tested for disease, as an outbreak in the Nether would be serious. Brandt lets him leave with the dog, but is still suspicious of him. 

Later, Preston tries to smuggle the dog out into the Nether by hiding it in his car trunk. He takes the dog out of the trunk, but the dog whines and doesn't leave. He puts the dog back in the trunk and gives it his coat for warmth. Suddenly, officers patrolling the Underground arrive. Preston quickly closes the trunk. The lead officer doesn't recognize Preston (it's dark out) and asks Preston for his badge for verification. Preston realizes his badge is in his coat, which he can't get, because of the dog. He instead says he doesn't have his coat on him. The officer asks for the keys to the trunk, and Preston reluctantly hands them over. The trunk opens, and the dog barks. The officers and patrol quickly turn on Preston, and Preston kills them using Brandt's gun.

Preston begins to feel remorse for killing Partridge and develops an emotional relationship with O'Brien. He uncovers clues that lead to meeting Jurgen, leader of the Underground. Jurgen is planning to disrupt Prozium production to spark a populist uprising and convinces Preston that Father must be assassinated. Vice-Counsel DuPont meets with Preston to reveal that there is a traitor in the upper ranks of the Clerics. Although DuPont initially suspects it is Preston, he assigns him the task of unmasking the traitor. Relieved, Preston accepts and promises to locate the Underground's leadership.

Meanwhile, O'Brien is set to be executed, and Jurgen advises against interfering, believing that it could sabotage plans for the revolution. Preston attempts to stop the execution and fails. Unable to bear her death, he has an emotional breakdown and is arrested by Brandt, who brings him before DuPont. Preston tricks DuPont into believing that Brandt is the traitor by saying the officers and patrol in the Underground were killed by Brandt. Following Brandt's arrest, Preston is told that his home will be searched as a formality. He rushes home to destroy the hidden vials only to discover that his son, who had stopped taking Prozium after his mother died, already has.

Jurgen tells Preston to capture the leaders of the resistance to regain government trust, hoping it will get Preston close enough to assassinate Father. Preston does and is granted an exclusive audience with Father, only to discover that Brandt was not arrested; it was part of a ruse to expose Preston and the Underground. DuPont reveals that he is Father, having secretly replaced the late original Father, and that his cabal does not take Prozium. He taunts Preston, asking how it felt to betray the Underground. Enraged, Preston fights his way through an army of bodyguards to DuPont's office, confronting and killing Brandt in a katana battle. DuPont and Preston engage in a gun kata showdown. Preston wins as DuPont pleads for his life asking, "Is it really worth the price?" Paying homage to Partridge's last words, he responds, "I pay it gladly" and kills DuPont. He destroys the command center that broadcasts Father propaganda. The Underground destroys Prozium manufacturing plants, signaling the beginning of the revolution.

