Ten years after the battle at Naboo,{{efn|As depicted in the 1999 film ''Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace''.}} the Galactic Republic is threatened by a Separatist movement organized by former Jedi Master Count Dooku. Senator Padmé Amidala travels to Coruscant to vote against a motion to create an army to assist the Jedi against the threat. Narrowly avoiding an assassination attempt upon arrival, she is placed under the protection of Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi and his apprentice Anakin Skywalker. The pair thwart a second assassination attempt on Padmé. They subdue the assassin, Zam Wesell, whose employer, a bounty hunter, kills her before she reveals his identity. The Jedi Council instructs Obi-Wan to find the bounty hunter, while Anakin is tasked to protect Padmé and escort her to Naboo. Despite the Jedi Code that forbids attachments, the two fall in love.

Obi-Wan's search leads to Kamino, an ocean planet. There he discovers a clone army is being produced for the Republic under the name of Sifo-Dyas, a deceased Jedi Master. The bounty hunter Jango Fett serves as their genetic template. Obi-Wan deduces Jango is the bounty hunter he is seeking, and after a brief battle, places a homing beacon on Jango's ship, ''Slave&nbsp;I''. He then follows Jango and his clone son, Boba, to the planet Geonosis. Meanwhile, Anakin is troubled by visions of his mother, Shmi, in pain, and returns to his homeworld of Tatooine with Padmé to save her. Watto reveals he sold Shmi to moisture farmer Cliegg Lars, who then freed and married her. Cliegg says Tusken Raiders abducted Shmi one month earlier and she is likely dead. Anakin finds her at the Tusken campsite, barely alive. After she dies in his arms, an enraged Anakin massacres the entire tribe. He later confesses his actions to Padmé and vows to prevent the deaths of those he loves.

On Geonosis, Obi-Wan discovers a Separatist gathering led by Count Dooku, who is developing a droid army with Trade Federation Viceroy Nute Gunray, who ordered the assassination attempts on Padmé. Obi-Wan transmits his findings to the Jedi Council but is captured by Separatist droids. Dooku meets Obi-Wan in his cell and explains his role in the Confederacy of Independent Systems' formation while confiding that the Sith Lord Darth Sidious controls a large portion of the Galactic Senate. He invites Obi-Wan to help him stop Sidious. When Obi-Wan refuses, Dooku says Obi-Wan's late master, Qui-Gon Jinn, who was also Dooku's former apprentice would have joined him, had he been alive. Meanwhile, Senate Representative Jar Jar Binks proposes a successful vote to grant emergency powers to Chancellor Palpatine, allowing the clone army to be authorized.

Anakin and Padmé head to Geonosis to rescue Obi-Wan. While in the Geonosian droid factory, Anakin loses his lightsaber before Jango captures them. In an arena, Dooku sentences the trio to death at the hands of the Reek, the Nexu, and the Acklay. A battalion of clone troopers led by Yoda, Mace Windu, and other Jedi suddenly arrive; Windu beheads Jango during the ensuing battle. Obi-Wan and Anakin intercept Dooku and engage in a lightsaber duel. Dooku injures Obi-Wan and severs Anakin's right arm; Yoda intervenes and defends them. To distract Yoda, Dooku uses the Force in an attempt to kill Anakin and Obi-Wan. Dooku escapes to Coruscant and delivers the schematics for a super-weapon to Sidious. The Jedi Council is disturbed by Dooku's statement that Sidious controls the Senate. As the Jedi acknowledge the beginning of the Clone Wars,{{efn|As depicted in the 2008 television series ''Star Wars: The Clone Wars''.}} Anakin is fitted with a robotic arm and secretly marries Padmé on Naboo.

