Alan Gould, a neurotic, unkempt anthropology graduate student, is beginning to believe that he may be the last living person on the planet. A mysterious catastrophe appears to have killed off everyone but him, leaving the buildings standing and goods untouched. When he's not running around in his underwear, revelling in his newly found freedom from body-shaming, he's in the abandoned stores downtown trying stuff out. Alan acquires a video camera on one of his expeditions and decides to make a video log explaining to any alien race that stumbles upon the empty planet what he thinks went wrong, interjected with references to his fieldwork among the primitive Shitabi tribe of the Amazon basin. He also tries, mostly unsuccessfully, to embrace the peaceful philosophy of the Shitabi people.

One day, much to Alan's delight, he finds Sarah. She is tall and shapely, but she is also fickle. Before the apocalypse, she wouldn't have spent time with Alan even if he was the last man on Earth. Sarah was the type of person who would sleep with her friend's lover or her lover's friends, and now she has convinced herself God is punishing her for her sins. She doesn't consider Alan to be an ideal mate, but he is all she has now. Alan, for his part, falls in love with her, and he convinces her that they will have to repopulate the world. She in turn makes him promise he will never leave her, and though she shies away from his touch, she reluctantly joins him in his RV.

While driving into town to gather supplies, the couple passes a hitchhiker carrying a large backpack. Alan's first impulse is to simply keep driving, but Sarah forces him to stop. The hitchhiker is Raphael, a handsome, charismatic young man. He doesn't appear to be as smart as Alan, but he's easygoing and quite engaging. He is everything Alan wishes to be. Sarah is immediately drawn to Raphael, and she transfers her fickle affections to him.

Seeing that he is losing Sarah to Raphael, Alan gets jealous and begins plotting ways to get rid of the competition. After a time he decides to let Fate take a hand, and he waits for Raphael to inevitably mess up, sending Sarah running back to him. Somehow, the two men blow up a memorial that Sarah had built. Alan talks to Raphael about it while secretly taping the conversation, but at the end of the conversation, Raphael decides to leave. The last thing he says to Alan is that he loves Sarah. Later on, Sarah asks Alan if he had talked to Raphael before he left, and Alan lies to her saying he hadn't — he didn't want to repeat Raphael's declaration of love. Raphael returns to the camp after finding one of the many notes Sarah had tied to balloons she had released, notes that all read, "Come back." After reconciling, the couple finds Alan's tapes and figure out that Alan had betrayed them, so they kick him out of the camp. Alan retaliates by driving a truck through the camp.

At the end, Alan places his camera on the ground and stands back. He tells his camera that he's heading south to find others who eat zinc, figuring that's the reason they all survived. He concludes with, "Life's a bitch, so be decent and try to respect one another's privacy." Then he runs up and punts the camera.

