Kate and Luke are co-workers at Chicago craft brewery Revolution Brewing, spending their days drinking and goofing off. Seemingly perfect for each other, they are both in relationships with other people. Kate is with Chris, and Luke with Jill. Jill is a nice, practical girl, and Chris an introvert. Jill wants to get married, which Luke promises to talk about soon.

One day, Luke and Kate are drinking with co-workers, and Jill and Chris also show up. Chris invites the other couple to join him and Kate on a trip to his cottage.<ref name="Deadline 1" /> On a hike on the trip, Jill and Chris kiss.

Luke and Kate spend the whole trip drinking and staying up late together, and have a bonfire. Kate dares Luke to go skinny dipping, stripping and running into the lake.

When the couples return home, Chris realizes his and Kate's differences and breaks up with her. Kate insists the whole brewery crew go out the next evening for drinks to celebrate her 'singleness'. That night she ends up sleeping with co-worker, Dave. When Luke hears, he is angry at them both, spending the whole day snapping at them, but later apologizes.

Jill decides to go away for a week with some college friends. During this trip, Luke and Kate go out for dinner and fall asleep together on the couch. He helps her pack up her old apartment and move the next day. At the end of the day, he falls asleep on the bed. Kate joins him.

The next morning, Luke and Kate keep moving, planning to have a celebratory dinner when they are done. He cuts his hand badly while helping move a couch, and she is squeamish about the blood and unhelpful. An impatient driver, blocked by the moving van, starts a fight with Luke. Kate calls Dave and another co-worker to help finish the move. Dave invites Kate out for drinks, and she agrees instead of dining with Luke. He is annoyed and they argue.

Returning home, Luke finds Jill has come home early, and she is crying. She sees his injuries and while cleaning him up, confesses to kissing Chris while at the cottage. She tells him how guilty she feels about it, and that she really loves him and wants to marry him. Luke forgives Jill and lets her know that he still loves her and wants to marry her too. The next day at work Kate and Luke awkwardly interact and then eventually sit together at lunch. They offer one another bits of their lunch, Kate refusing the banana and he tosses it, their way of saying they will remain friends. They smile and share a beer.

