86-year-old Irving Zisman's joy over the death of his wife is cut short when he gets stuck with his 8-year-old grandson, Billy, because his mother, Kimmie (Irving's daughter), violated her parole and consequently is going back to jail. Kimmie urges Irving to make sure Billy makes it to his father. Irving and Billy get on a video call with Billy's deadbeat dad, Chuck, and instructs Irving to take Billy down to Raleigh, North Carolina by 2 P.M. Sunday.

To make money, Irving sells his former wife's belongings, and later calls over two men to get her dead body into the trunk of his car. They settle her corpse in, and Irving and Billy hit the road. Billy is hungry, so Irving pulls over to a nearby market. He tries to flirt with a woman, as Billy goes on a ride that seems to not work. Irving tries going on the ride and it springs off its base.

Frustrated, Irving tries to ship Billy to North Carolina through the post office, but his attempt is not successful. Afterwards, he goes to play Bingo, leading to shenanigans between Irving and the other Bingo players, as Billy wanders off asking a random man to be his replacement dad.

Billy gets hungry again, so the two go to a supermarket. Irving shoplifts and makes Billy and himself a sandwich while they are in the store. The two are halted by staff, and they leave.

Irving and Billy stop at a motel. Irving goes to a black men strip club so he could hook up with aroused women. He starts stripping as his testicles hang out of his underwear, disgusting the people in the club.

As they approach North Carolina, Irving uses Billy to attract women, but none fall for him. They drive to a diner, where Irving crashes into a large penguin statue. A man who promotes the diner is angered by this and demands him to fix the statue. They go in the diner and try to entertain each other by farting, but Irving accidentally defecates on the wall, so they leave.

Billy gets hungry once again, so Irving takes him to a church where a wedding reception is taking place. During a group photo, Irving swipes a glass of champagne from a wine glass tower, causing the entirety of the tower to collapse. He then falls on top of the table the tower was on and inadvertently destroys the wedding cake.

Irving drives Billy to a bar, where they are set to meet Billy's dad, Chuck, who is also speaking with a member of a biker organization entitled Guardians of the Children, which is an organization that assists abused children. They enter the bar, and Irving drops Billy off, bidding him farewell. Irving drives away, when he immediately starts to regret his decision, and returns to the bar. Chuck starts to show bad parenting toward Billy, which is noticed by the G.O.C. So, Irving successfully gets Billy as the members hold Chuck back.

To celebrate, Irving and Billy crash a beauty pageant after spotting the flyer on their road trip. Afterwards, Irving drives up to a bridge where he and Billy finally get rid of Ellie's body by throwing it into a river and proceed to go fishing.

