Gary King, an immature 40-year-old alcoholic, decides to recapture his youth by contacting his boyhood friends  Oliver Chamberlain, Peter Page, Steven Prince, and Andrew Knightley, and inviting them to complete the "Golden Mile", a pub crawl encompassing the 12 pubs of their hometown of Newton Haven, the last of them being the World's End. The group attempted the crawl as teens in 1990, but failed to reach the final three pubs. Andy, now a teetotaller due to a drunk driving incident years before involving himself and Gary, reluctantly agrees to join after Gary lies about his mother dying.

The group encounters Oliver's sister, Sam, who Gary and Steven fought over in school. In the fourth pub, Gary goes to the toilet, where he gets into a fight with a teenager and knocks his head off, exposing him as an android. As Gary's friends find him in the bathroom, they encounter several other androids and fight them off. They realize the town has been replaced by androids (which they dub "Blanks.") 

Gary urges them to continue the pub crawl to avoid suspicion. The group bumps into Sam once more, and she, Gary, and Steven fight Blank versions of Sam's childhood friends, known as the "twins". She tags along with them, and Steven is told by Basil, another resident who has not yet been replaced by a Blank, that the Blanks are trying to build a galactic conglomerate, and that any humans refusing will be replaced with identical simulants. The Blanks attempt to convince the humans to join their assimilation. Unwilling to lose their humanity and, finding out that both Oliver and their old school teacher, Mr. Shepherd, have been replaced, the group fights a bar full of Blanks.

Gary lets Sam escape Newton Haven by herself; Pete gets captured after attacking the Blank that has replaced his childhood bully; and, when Andy and Steven try to escape, Gary ditches them to finish the Golden Mile alone. Andy and Steven chase after Gary, as does the rest of Newton Haven, as Steven is captured.

In The World's End, Andy confronts Gary and reveals that his marriage is troubled, while Gary reveals a recent suicide attempt. Andy tries to stop Gary from drawing his final pint, but Gary clings to completing the Mile, as he believes it's all he has.

When Gary pulls the lever to pour himself a pint, the floor lowers into a hidden chamber. A disembodied alien entity, known as the Network, tells Gary and Andy that the Blank invasion is the first step to humanity joining a galactic community. The Network offers Gary eternal youth if he becomes a Blank, but he refuses. Along with Andy and Steven, who has survived, Gary calls out the tyranny in the Network's plan and demands that humanity be left to its own devices. The Network, exasperated, agrees to abandon the invasion. Sam rescues Gary, Andy, and Steven as the town is destroyed, but they are unable to outrun the pulse triggered by the departure of the Network, which deactivates Sam's car.

Some time later, Andy relates that the pulse triggered a worldwide blackout that destroyed all electrical power on Earth, sending humanity back to the Dark Ages. The remaining Blanks reactivated a few weeks later and, although they are now independent from the Network, they are mistrusted and shunned by most of the surviving humans. Andy's marriage has recovered, Steven is in a relationship with Sam, and the simulant versions of Peter and Oliver have picked up where their human versions left off. In the ruins of Newton Haven, the now-sober Gary enters a pub with the Blank versions of his younger friends and orders water. When the bartender refuses to serve Blanks, Gary leads his friends into a brawl.

