{{Long plot|section|date=July 2023}}
In the world of underground motorcycle drag racing, the undefeated racer known as Smoke is the undisputed "King of Cali", fending off challengers for his crown. Kid, a novice rider, has been assisting his father, mechanic Slick Will, as they prepare Smoke's bike for racing. In narration, Kid quotes his dad as saying "the difference between men and boys is the lessons they learn" and adds that his father taught him plenty.

A local biker issues a challenge to Smoke, who accepts. Smoke, utilizing "tunnel vision", wins the race but the challenger crashes into a row of parked bikes. Upended, the motorcycle strikes Slick Will and throws him through a plate storefront window. Both men are instantly killed. At Slick Will's funeral, Smoke leads dozens of bikers from the "Black Knights" to offer his condolences to Slick Will's widow Anita. They drop a Black Knights flag into his grave; Kid is unimpressed with the gesture.

Six months later, Kid is a capable rider who is hustling with fellow racer Stuntman. To cover their tracks, fellow biker Primo suggests that the trio form a bike club. Kid starts a romance with Tina, a tattoo artist. Kid makes amends to the biker jury consisting of 10 leaders of the most powerful biker gangs. He apologizes for his disrespect towards Smoke, their chairman, and they agree to verify the new club with the trio calling themselves "Biker Boyz".

Smoke is challenged by leader of the Strays and long-time rival Dogg, and the two wager thousands and the title. The day of the race, Smoke defeats the aggressive Dogg and afterwards, in late but stunting fashion, the Biker Boyz arrive. Kid trash talks Motherland in an impromptu move to provoke Smoke. Smoke is unamused with Kid's bid to "make an entrance" and the Black Knights exit. Motherland and Kid race until police arrive and arrest Kid. A lawyer for the Black Knights bails Kid out and Anita confronts him, threatening to evict Kid from her house if he races again.

The night of the Black Knights annual dance, Kid is challenged by proxy to race Dogg and accepts after a squabble with Tina's brother and Stray mechanic Wood. Anita finds Smoke before the race and demands that he stop it. Smoke and Anita argue until she relents, telling Smoke that Kid is his son and not Slick Will's. Incredulous, Smoke is moved to act and manages to draw Kid into an altercation. Kid attacks Smoke but the veteran confiscates Kid's keys and knocks him out, averting the race.

Recovering at home, Kid confronts Anita, who confesses. Enraged, Kid moves in with his girlfriend Tina. Kid elects to go rogue and after gaining more followers for his club, gathers his team. When Stuntman successfully hustles the nephew of a dangerous biker, he and Primo are ambushed at a party. Kid comes to the rescue but is overpowered by the leader of the other club who pulls a gun. Smoke and a group of Black Knights intervene and convince the vengeful bikers to stand down. Smoke and Kid have a sit down at the Biker Boyz spot but Kid is more dismissive and angry as ever. Smoke agrees to race Kid under the condition that whoever loses will never race again, but first Smoke has to allow Kid to race Dogg at the next circuit event. Soon thereafter Kid reconciles with Anita.

At the race track, Kid and his team face the Strays with Smoke and the Black Knights at watch from the stands. Dogg and Kid race down the strip until Dogg does a "bump and run" causing Kid to "lay the bike down" into a crash. Although Kid is unhurt, his bike is wrecked. Smoke informs Kid that the authorities are closing the track, due to the amount of crashes, but he has managed to rent a farm outside of town, securing their race. Kid agrees to arrive the next day.

Kid, Primo, and Stuntman try to fix Kid's bike when the Strays arrive to confront them. Wood confirms that the damage is too severe to mend in time for the race. Dogg concedes that only their bikes are as strong and fast as Smoke's. As a peace offering, Dogg lends Kid his bike.

The following day, Black Knights and Biker Boyz arrive and line up in opposing formation in the open field. Smoke calls for a fair race, with no nitrous oxide system; Kid wants Tina to call the start. Smoke and Kid race on a dirt road behind the farm and Kid adopts Smoke's "tunnel vision" with the finish line in sight. On course to win, Smoke is suddenly filled with emotions and instead slows down to let his son win, giving way to Kid becoming the new "King of Cali".

Smoke relinquishes the crown to a humbled and respectful Kid who tells Smoke to keep his helmet. Kid watches on as his father rides off into the sunset and in narration repeats Slick Will’s sentiment in full context that "the difference between men and boys are the lessons they learn" and adds that his father taught him plenty.

