Larry, a physics-professor from Manila, is secretly the superhero Lastikman. A human mutant who has the ability to stretch and to shapeshift his body fantastically to great lengths and into any form he desires. He received his superpowers as a teenager when a meteorite crashed into a rubber-tree right over him. Years later he is a famous and popular superhero adored by the citizens of Manila and especially by his student Jepoy, whom he saves regularly from bullies.

When the violent bully Ryan is banned from the University after another attack, he is enraged so hard that he uses Jepoy's worship for Lastikman and lures him into a trap. Dressed up as Lastikman, he and his friends beat Jepoy almost dead. The injured Jepoy feels betrayed and turns insane. While the police believes Lastikman really beat up an innocent citizen and the media turns against him, Jepoy locks himself in his home-lab and uses some high-tech gadgets to turn into the supervillain Stryker.

Jepoy, now Stryker, attacks the bully gang and tries to kill them. Lastikman interferes but in the chaos Jepoy's friend Donna is killed. Stryker blames Lastikman and the arriving police tries to arrest him. Lastikman is able to escape with his shapeshifting power and decides to stop his superhero-activities forever.

Stryker, still furious with Lastikman, runs havoc in Manila, blowing up buildings and bridges to lure him out. The media apologize to Lastikman and Larry decides, after talking with his grandfather (who is aware of his superhero alter ego from the first day) to fight him.

Lastikman faces Stryker and in the battle, which causes huge chaos across Manila, they realize each other's identity. The shocked Stryker falls into a power-unit and falls into a coma. Lastikman is rehabilitated and the city's hero again.

Several days later Larry meets his friend Linda in a resort and confesses that he loves her, despite her crush on Lastikman. When they kiss, Larry's mouth is stretched and Linda realizes that Larry and Lastikman are the same person, which turns her very happy.

