During the Crusades, young commander Jacob (Hayden Christensen) leads an army including Gallain (Nicolas Cage) in the slaughter of an Arab city.  Gallain pleads with Jacob to leave the people alone, claiming killing them is not God's will, and go East.  Gallain witnesses Jacob become increasingly violent and leaves.

3 years later in Song China, a dying Emperor chooses his young son Prince Zhao to be his successor, giving him the imperial seal and sending him away in the care of his older sister, Princess Lian. Shortly thereafter, their sadistic older brother, Prince Shing, murders the King in a fit of rage after having been passed over as heir. Shing assumes command of the Emperor's Black Guard, ordering the deaths of his siblings in order to obtain the seal and the legitimacy of the throne.  The guards and army only cooperate under fear of retribution.

Zhao and Lian make it to a tavern before their horse dies.  Inside they ask for help, but the Black Guard catch up to them.  Jacob, though high on opium, defends them and kills the guards before moving on, refusing to escort them.  Later on, remembering the horrors of combat, he decides to assist them. Traveling through a village destroyed by the Black Guard, they rescue a girl, Xiaolei. They attempt to take refuge in the desert city Jingshao. They are betrayed by their hosts, who summon the Black Guard, hoping to win the price on their heads. This forces them to fight their way out and escape by boat to the Silver Mountain, where some bandits Jacob originally sought take refuge.

Jacob is injured and the others are captured by the bandits.  Jacob awakens to find Gallain saved them, though he is now known as the White Ghost. Jacob sought out Gallain to explain to him that he did not murder women and children in the Crusades as Gallain believed, and they reconcile.  Shortly thereafter, Shing and the Black Guard corner them at the bandit hideout.  After intense fighting, Gallain is killed.  Jacob duels Shing; as Shing gets the upper hand, Lian intervenes and is stabbed by Shing.  Jacob, enraged, overpowers Shing and kills him.  With Shing's threat eliminated, the leader of the Black Guard swears loyalty to Prince Zhao.

Jacob and Lian survive their injuries and they, Zhao and Xiaolei are escorted by the Black Guard to the city, where Zhao is recognized as the new Emperor. Jacob, however, still tormented by his past and fearful of the future, leaves Lian and buries Gallain before he resumes traveling on his own.

