John Hancock is an alcoholic, reckless superhuman imbued with flight, invulnerability, and super-strength. Acting as a haphazard superhero in Los Angeles, he is often ridiculed and hated by the public for his drunken and careless acts, and becomes enraged when called an "asshole".

Hancock rescues Ray Embrey, a public relations specialist, from an oncoming train, which he needlessly derails to do it. Thankful and seeing a career opportunity, Ray offers to help improve Hancock's public image. Hancock meets Ray's family, his son Aaron, a fan, and his wife Mary, who is suspicious of him.

Ray encourages Hancock to issue a public apology, and then go to prison for a time, until Los Angeles needs him properly. He reluctantly agrees, struggling to fit in at prison. Two fellow inmates soon threaten him as he put them there, so he injures them. Hancock is visited by Ray, who encourages him to be patient but when he hears he might be in for 8 years he starts to break out. Ray persuades him to stay inside and stick to the plan. Hancock is later visited by Mary and Aaron who bring him homemade spaghetti with meatballs.

The Los Angeles' crime rate rises and Hancock is eventually released to help. He foils a bank robbery orchestrated by Red Parker, with Hancock slicing off his hand to prevent him from activating a dead man's switch. He is praised as a hero and becomes popular.

Hancock has dinner with Ray and Mary, and reveals that he is an amnesiac and immortal, having woken up in a hospital 80 years ago with no memory of his identity. The doctors told him that as he was stopping a mugging and was clubbed in the head. Ray tells Hancock that Mary is Aaron's stepmother and that his biological mother had died in childbirth. Carrying a drunk Ray home, Hancock kisses Mary, who kisses him back but then throws him through the wall, revealing that she also has superpowers.

The next day, Hancock and Mary speak in private. She explains that there were more like them in the past - sometimes called angels or gods by others - but they are the last pair. They have lived for three thousand years and are soulmates. The other angels/gods paired up, lived human lives and then died.

Hancock flies away to tell Ray about Mary kissing him, only for her to chase him and incite a violent battle across the city. Ray witnesses the fight, later confronting the duo. Mary admits Hancock is actually her husband from the past, but that she chose to quietly leave him once he had lost his memory.

After stopping a store robbery, Hancock finds that a bullet has hurt him and he needs hospital treatment. Mary explains that the closer they are, the more mortal they become. They will lose their powers unless they stay apart. The last time Hancock and Mary were together was eighty years ago when Hancock was attacked.

Parker, who escaped prison with several other criminals, attacks the hospital to get revenge. Mary is caught in the crossfire and injured. Hancock manages to use some of his fading strength to fight and kill the convicts, but is further injured when Parker shoots him. He is saved by Ray, who cuts off Parker's other hand with a fire axe before killing him as well. Hancock throws himself out of the hospital, trying to increase his distance from Mary so they can both recover, before flying off.

A month later, Ray and his family receive a call from Hancock (who is now in New York City), revealing that he has imprinted the Moon's surface with Ray's AllHeart marketing logo. In a mid-credits scene, Hancock confronts a criminal holding a woman at gunpoint and demands that he help him escape from the police, while calling him an asshole in the process, much to Hancock's amusement.

