In 1981, demonologists Ed and Lorraine Warren document the exorcism of 8-year-old David Glatzel, attended by his family, his sister Debbie, her boyfriend Arne Johnson, and Father Gordon in Brookfield, Connecticut. In an attempt to save the little boy, Arne invites the demon to enter his body instead of David's. Ed witnesses the demon enter Arne just as he suffers a heart attack. 

The following month, Ed wakes up at the hospital and reveals to Lorraine that he witnessed the demon enter Arne. After feeling unwell, Arne murders his landlord by stabbing him 22 times. With the support of the Warrens, his case becomes the first American murder trial where demonic possession is claimed as a defense. The Warrens discover a satanic curse passed on through a witch's totem and meet with Kastner, a former priest who had dealt with the Disciples of the Ram cult. He tells them that an occultist had intentionally left the totem, resulting in the creation of a curse on the Glatzels, causing David's possession.

The Warrens travel to Danvers, Massachusetts to investigate the death of Katie Lincoln, who was also stabbed 22 times. Detectives had found a totem at the home of Katie's friend Jessica, who is missing. Lorraine initiates a vision and discovers that Jessica had stabbed Katie while possessed before jumping to her death, which allows detectives to recover Jessica's body. In another vision, she witnesses the occultist attempting to make Arne kill himself but stops her.

Drew reveals that a book of Stregherian witchcraft states that for the curse to be lifted, the occultist's altar must be destroyed. Ed is affected by the curse when a totem is discovered in flowers delivered to the Warren's house, but is stopped by Drew. Kastner sadly reveals that he'd secretly raised a daughter, Isla, in violation of the requirement of clerical celibacy in the Catholic Church. As he researched the occult, Isla grew fascinated by it and became the occultist. He leads Lorraine into the tunnels underneath the house, where her altar is but Isla kills her father. Ed is briefly bewitched by Isla and attempts to kill Lorraine, but she reminds him of their love. Ed regains his senses and destroys the altar, saving himself, Lorraine and Arne, who had also been about to die. Isla is killed by the demon she'd summoned after failing to complete the curse.

Ed places the cup from the altar in the Warrens' artifact room, along with the Valak painting and the Annabelle doll. Arne is convicted of manslaughter and serves a sentence of five years, marrying Debbie while in prison.

