Lonely young girl Ida and her older sister Anna have moved into an apartment with their parents. Anna has nonverbal autism, with Ida having to take responsibility for her. One day Ida meets Ben and the two strike up a friendship. Ben shows Ida that he is able to move small, light-weight objects with telekinesis. 

Ida is asked to bring Anna to the playground and leaves her there to go off and play with Ben. They play soccer until a bully takes the ball. Ben picks up a cat he has seen in the woods and the two drop it from the top of the apartment complex's stairs. They find the cat alive but Ben kills it by crushing its skull with his foot. When Ida leaves to find Anna she is not on the tire swing where Ida left her. Ida discovers Anna playing with Aisha, another child from the apartment complex. Aisha demonstrates that she is able to communicate with Anna through telepathy. It is later revealed that Anna can move objects with telekenesis but Ida discovers that the powers are strongest when the three children are together - and that she is the only child of the group without supernatural powers.  

The children practice their powers and strengthen them and Anna begins to speak words verbally. While sending mental messages, Ben becomes angry at the message "Ben is a turd" and Aisha's subsequent laughter. He knocks Aisha over telekinetically and Anna intervenes. In the mental battle, Anna is injured by a piece of wood lodged in her leg. At home, Ben is scolded by his mother and knocks her out with a pan using his powers. She later wakes up and tells him to call for help. In a later scene her body remains in the kitchen, her face covered with a towel. 

Using his powers, Ben is able to "fetch" other people and influence them to do what he wants. While in a trance he directs a neighbor to kill his bully. After telling Ida of this power while playing in the woods, she encourages him to prove it by controlling her. She climbs onto a fridge; when the spell is broken she says that she saw a snake which in reality was a tree branch. He says he only wanted her to climb the fridge so seeing the snake is an image her mind created. He shows Ida he can snap the large twig and later snaps the leg of a child on the playground. Aisha is drawn outside by this and tells Ben to stop. He throws a rock at her using his powers and then attacks her by seemingly forcing her throat to close up. Ida physically pushes him over and the spell is broken. Anna and Aisha resolve to stop Ben because he will hurt them but that night Ben uses his powers to influence Aisha's mother to kill her with a knife. 

A stranger follows Ida, Anna, and their father and tries to enter the apartment complex but is locked out. Ida invites Ben out to play with a toy glider and they agree to go to a higher spot in order to launch it. At the highway overpass where the bully was killed, Ben climbs up to throw the glider and Ida moves forward to push him over. A woman on a bicycle yells at Ben to get down but Ida pushes him over the wall; he falls onto a grassy area next to the road and appears to be in a trance. Ida runs off and realizes she is under Ben's control because her surroundings become dark. She runs into the road and breaks her leg when she is hit by a car; Ben wakes up screaming.

Ida is fearful of Ben's retaliation using her mother and locks herself in the bathroom. Her mom leaves the apartment to go to the store. When Ida leaves the bathroom Anna is also gone. Anna and Ben face one another across a large pond and affect their surroundings with telekinesis, causing Anna to fall down. Ida loses her crutch trying to get down the stairs. She screams and explodes her cast using telekinesis for the first time. The battle between Anna and Ben intensifies - babies cry, dogs bark, waves form. Ida joins Anna while some of the nearby children begin to watch from the playground and apartment balconies. Anna and Ida hold hands and Ben becomes visibly weak. A metal swing set buckles and Ben sits into the tire swing. Eventually there is a burst of energy which causes things nearby to fall over. At the same time, Ben goes limp in the swing. The children who were watching go back to their games and homes.

