Three friends, Deirdre, Charlotte, and Heather, have travelled to the Mojave Desert in order to livestream a meteor shower while staying at a palatial home owned by Heather's father. Deirdre is frustrated when their phones stop working, as she had hoped to use the event to further increase her standing as a social media influencer. A meteor crash lands on the property, and the women retrieve it, only to discover that it's a strange creature.

The following day, the creature appears to molt, shedding its rocky exterior. Unnerved by the creature, the women try to have their young gardener, Brett, get rid of it, but he fails to do so and flees the property as the creature is still alive. The women argue over whether they should kill the creature, eventually agreeing against doing so for the time being.

That night, the creature cries so loudly that Charlotte brings it inside, much to Heather's anger. The women again argue until they decide that Charlotte and Heather should go into town and find someone to take it away. While they're gone, the creature hypnotizes Deirdre. Charlotte and Heather go to their neighbor Edna's home, in hope of finding help. They instead find her home uninhabited while also discovering disturbing notebooks about the meteor shower. They return home, where they find Deirdre acting strangely. That night, the creature turns into a blob and absorbs both Deirdre and Heather after similarly hypnotizing her.

The following morning, Charlotte becomes frightened by her friends' different personalities and the increasingly menacing activities of the creature. Charlotte returns to Edna's home in hopes of finding a car and fleeing the home but is unsuccessful. She re-examines the journals, revealing that Edna had also had an experience with a similar creature. Panicked, Charlotte goes outside and discovers that Edna had killed herself. She returns home, where the creature tries and fails to hypnotize her.

Deirdre and Heather's bodies begin to change as their stomachs swell, after which they begin to vomit a strange black fluid. Charlotte manages to kill the creature with some difficulty, but her friends remain changed. She then chases her friends outside and manages to kill Heather. Just as she is about to do the same to Deirdre, a cowboy arrives and stops Charlotte by shooting her. He is killed by Deirdre, who in turn is finished off by Charlotte. Just as she is about to flee, the meteor shower begins as Charlotte looks on in horror.

