After actor Declan learns about the cancellation of the hit TV show ''Belle'' where he stars, he discloses the news to his fellow castmates: aspiring writer Kip, shallow diva Kelly, the level-headed and confident Alex, the very ditzy Chrissy and fun-loving Max. Kip wants to use the opportunity and reveals to his friends about a horror movie he has been working on. The idea of being in charge of their own movie excites them and although Kelly is initially hesitant, she later agrees on the condition that she gets to star.

The group starts working on the movie, juggling between improving Kip's terrible script and coping with Kelly's dissatisfaction. Chrissy's pendulum gives them an idea to shoot a séance and Chrissy agrees to use the pendulum during filming though she is against the idea.

Max sends some of their scenes to his manager and claims that the movie will be highly sought after, motivating them to carry on with the film. Chrissy then starts to recite the séance. In the night as they film the séance the group all feel strange things happen, such as Declan hearing thunder from his house even though it was a clear night, Kelly feeling a gust of wind blowing on her face and a shadow appearing behind Chrissy, which she claims she had no idea of. The group later notice the same shadow in Alex's footage as well.

The next day Chrissy joins in the video call with a blackened eye, saying that she couldn't stop hitting herself the previous night even after she stopped filming. The group first rebuke it as Chrissy trying to seek attention but soon realise that strange things were going with the rest of the cast every time they try to shoot the séance scene, creeping them out enough for Kip to cancel shooting for the night.

At night, Kip wakes Alex up telling her Chrissy had uploaded a horrifying video of an anonymous person recording her while she slept. Alarmed, Kip contacts the rest of the group, but Chrissy disconnects mid-call. Declan video-calls her for the rest of the group to see that someone is indeed in Chrissy's house. Declan leaves to help her while the others watch as she tries to survive many attacks.

Declan reaches Chrissy's house in time to witness Chrissy choking herself to death after giving her pendulum to Declan. Declan flees from her house with the pendulum. A few days later Kip calls Declan telling him that Chrissy's body was found and her death was ruled an accident. The group argues whether to abandon the movie and Declan decides to throw away Chrissy's pendulum after realising that it is the source of the evil entity. However, he is later strangled to death by the same entity and is possessed.

The rest of the group, unaware of Declan's death, is invited by the creators of ''Belle'' and reveal their intention to renew it for three more seasons to honor Chrissy. One of the producers Bobbie, finds a package from Declan containing the materials for the séance and Chrissy's pendulum. After Bobbie recites the séance again, the entire group is possessed while the producers leave, convinced they were being pranked.

