Casey, a lonely teenage girl living with her single father, decides to record herself taking the viral "World's Fair Challenge". She states "I want to go to the World's Fair" three times on camera, pricks her finger, smears some of her blood on her laptop computer screen, and watches a short strobe light video, before saying she will post updates if she starts to notice any "changes."

Other World's Fair challengers record and post their own psychological and physical changes. In Casey's next video, she recounts bouts of sleepwalking she experienced when she was younger and says she has begun feeling similarly since taking the challenge. Late one night, she sneaks into her shed, where she finds her father's shotgun. She then watches an ASMR video of a young woman calming someone after a nightmare before a disturbing video made to her from user "JLB" plays, featuring Casey's distorted face along with the messages "YOU ARE IN TROUBLE" and "I NEED TO TALK TO YOU."

Casey reaches out to JLB, a collaborator with other World's Fair challengers, and speaks with him over Skype. JLB claims to worry about Casey after the symptoms she reported in her last post, and encourages her to keep making videos so he can monitor her wellbeing. JLB is revealed to be an equally lonely middle-aged man who spends his time watching other people's World's Fair videos.

JLB watches another video of Casey's that she recorded while she slept, during which she appears to pull herself out of bed with a menacing smile. JLB informs her through another personal video that the forces behind the World's Fair are taking her over, and that she should continue posting videos. The content of Casey's videos becomes increasingly disturbing, including one where she inexplicably screams in terror while recording herself singing and dancing to a song, another where she states her intention to use her father's gun to kill either him or herself, and another where she ominously states she will one day "disappear" and nobody will ever figure out what has happened to her.

In her next video, she covers her face and arms in glow paint in her blacklit bedroom and tears apart the stuffed animal she has slept with since she was a newborn. She then appears to snap out of it and tearfully expresses regret when she sees the ruined toy. In her next conversation with JLB, he says he needs to ask her a question, but that they must "go out of game" first. He admits he continues to worry about her and says he has even considered calling the police to do a wellness check on her. Casey seems surprised by JLB's statement that the Fair is just a game, but quickly regains her composure and angrily asserts that her videos were not real, that she was only playing along with the challenge, and that Casey is not even her real name. She cuts off contact with him, and he tries in vain to convince her to continue making videos.

Some time later, JLB recounts having been contacted by Casey a year after the events of the film, meeting and eventually befriending her in New York City where she is currently living. It is left ambiguous whether this meeting actually happened or not.

