{{long plot|date=September 2021}}  
The film starts with a new con man in the town called Pondolem, a fictitious village in Goa, joining the newly built police station in the town. While walking through the station with a constable, he notices a man, ostensibly named Vijay Salgaonkar, sitting at one far end. The newly joined policeman asks whether he is "Vijay Salgaonkar", to which the constable replies positively. The film then goes into a flashback as "Vijay" closes his eyes.

Vijay Salgaonkar is an orphan who dropped out of school after 4th grade. Now he is a content businessman running a cable TV service in Goa. He is married to Nandini, and they have two daughters, Anju, his adopted daughter, a class twelve student, and Anu, a class six student. His only interest is watching films. He has gained a lot of fame and support in his area for helping people with the help of methods he learns from films.

During a nature camp which Anju attends, a hidden cell phone camera records Anju removing her clothes and showering in the bathroom. The culprit, Sameer "Sam" Deshmukh, is the son of Inspector General of Goa Police, Meera Deshmukh. Sam comes to blackmail Anju for sexual favours one day, turning up at her house the same night, when Nandini shows up too; her daughter informed her. Nandini pleads with Sam to leave their family alone, but Sam refuses to delete the video clip unless his sexual demand is fulfilled. Nandini begs him to leave Anju alone, and Sam says he will do it on one condition: Nandini should have sex with him instead. In an attempt to break the offending cell phone, Anju swings at Sam with a lead pipe, but she strikes him in the head instead, killing him immediately. They bury his body in a compost pit in the backyard, which Anu witnesses. In the morning, when he returns from work, Nandini tells Vijay about the incident and he devises a way to save his family from the police. He removes the broken cell phone and disposes of Sam's car, which is seen by the Sub-Inspector Laxmikant Gaitonde, who has a grudge against Vijay. The next day, Vijay takes his family out on a trip to Panaji, where they visit an Ashram, watch a film, and eat at a restaurant.

Meera, realizing that her son has gone missing, starts an investigation.

After a preliminary investigation, Meera calls Vijay and his family for questioning. Having predicted that the police would come calling eventually, Vijay coaches his family on how to face the interrogations without raising suspicion. When questioned individually, the family sticks to their individual stories and the police cannot find a crack in their alibis. Vijay produces bus tickets, movie tickets, lodging and restaurant bills as proof of the family's visit to Panjim. Meera questions the owners of the establishments they have been to and their statements prove Vijay's alibi. Meera realizes that on the day of the incident, Vijay had taken the tickets and the bill, made acquaintance with the owners and had gone for the trip with his family the next day, thus proving his alibi and making the owners unwittingly tell a lie.

Meera has the Salgaonkar family arrested, and Gaitonde uses brute force to beat the truth out of them though Vijay, Nandini and Anju resist. Meanwhile, Meera finds out about Sam and his video of Anju from Sam's friend, Alex. Eventually, Anu gives in and reveals that she has seen a body being buried in the compost pit. After digging into the compost pit, the authorities find the carcass of a dog. Vijay reports to the media that Gaitonde physically abused both his daughters, causing an angry Gaitonde to attempt an attack on Vijay. Still, Vijay's in-laws retaliate, and a mob rises to beat up Gaitonde. Following the incident, Gaitonde is suspended, Meera resigns from her post, and the entire investigating team of the Police Station is transferred out, with the case now requiring authorization from the court. When Nandini asks Vijay about what he did to the body, he refuses to tell her, saying that the secret will remain within his mind and it must go with him without a trace.

Meera and her husband Mahesh meet Vijay at the seaside to ask forgiveness for the video clip and their son's rude and perverted behaviour, and to get a confirmation whether their son is alive or not. They also reveal they would leave for London to live with Meera's brother. Finally, Vijay cryptically confesses to killing Sam. He also asks for forgiveness and explains to them that he would go to any lengths to protect his family.

The film returns to the present day as Vijay opens his eyes. He signs the register in the newly constructed police station. While signing, the new inspector tells him that he can't be fooled and will definitely find out, at which point Vijay smilingly confides that he is sure the local police force and the police station will protect its townspeople.

A flashback plays along as Vijay exits the police station in the present day, revealing that Vijay buried the body under the new police station while it was under construction. As he looks at both sides of the road, the film suddenly closes with a blackout.

