Claire Peterson is separated from her husband Garrett, who was cheating on her with his secretary, while her colleague and best friend Vicky Lansing urges Claire to divorce him. 19-year-old Noah Sandborn, an orphan whose parents died a year ago, moves in next door to help his uncle, who uses a wheelchair. Noah befriends Kevin, Claire's teenage son, and begins attending his school, where she teaches classics. Noah is partially drawn to Claire by their mutual love for Homer's ''Iliad''. 

While Kevin and Garrett go away on a fishing trip, Claire goes on a miserable double date with Vicky, her boyfriend Ethan, and his ill-mannered friend Benny. Claire later has dinner with Noah, during which he unashamedly flirts with her. As she is about to go home, Noah stops and seduces Claire. While seducing her, Noah undresses and carries Claire into bed, and they eventually have passionate sex. The following morning, Claire wakes up and tells him she regrets their night together, causing him to punch a wall in rage.

After the school year begins, Noah hacks into Claire's computer, making it appear as if she sent an e-mail to the principal requesting Noah to be in her class. Continuing to hang out with Kevin, Noah manipulates him into hating his father. Later, Kevin overexerts himself at gym class and goes into shock; Noah saves his life by injecting him with his EpiPen. Claire receives flowers and initially thinks they're from Garrett, but finds out they're actually from Noah, and she confronts him about it before later spending the evening at home with Garrett. Noah witnesses this, has flashbacks of him and Claire having sex, and his obsession with her escalates. 

After an incident where Noah — defending Kevin — violently assaults a bully, leaving him with a fractured skull, Vicky, the school's vice principal, discovers that Noah was kicked out of his previous school for disorderly conduct and expels him after he aggressively insults her. Kevin prepares himself for his date with his classmate Allie at the Fall Fling dance. At the dance, Claire investigates a leak in the boys' bathroom, where "I fucked Claire Peterson" is written on the wall. Noah emerges and attempts to rape her, but she fends him off and demands that he stay away from her and Kevin. Under the delusional belief that Claire wants to be with him, he is unwilling to do so. Later that night, Claire sees Noah having sex with Kevin’s date. The following day, Noah leaves a printer running in Claire's classroom, with pictures of them sleeping together scattered everywhere. Claire is able to get rid of all the photos in the nick of time, either by throwing them away or stashing them under her desk before the principal and Claire's students walk in. Later, when Garrett's car brakes fail, he and Kevin narrowly escape serious injury. That evening, Noah attempts to blackmail Claire with a video of them having sex, saying he will relinquish it to her if she continues sleeping with him, but she again refuses. 

Claire has Vicky lure Noah away from his house so she can break in and delete the sex tape. Horrified, she finds nude pictures of herself all over the walls and on his laptop; she also finds instructions on tampering with the brakes of both Garrett's and Noah's parents' cars. Ethan's detective friend gives Claire the truth about the car accident in Noah's family. Meanwhile, Noah binds and gags Vicky with duct tape and uses a recording of her voice to lure Claire to her house. When she arrives, she discovers Vicky dead with her throat slashed and calls 911, but Noah appears. When she accuses him of killing his parents, he clarifies that his mother killed herself after his father cheated on her, and he retaliated by cutting his father's car's brakes, killing him and his mistress. 

Noah takes Claire to a barn where he has tied up Garrett and Kevin, outlining his deluded notion that killing them will help him and Claire start a new life together, and soon pours gasoline around the barn and lights it. Claire finally destroys Noah's delusions by stabbing Noah in the eye with Kevin's EpiPen in the ensuing struggle. Enraged, Noah attempts to kill all three, but Claire eventually pulls a lever that drops an engine on Noah, ultimately killing him. Claire and Kevin then help a wounded Garrett out of the burning barn as police and paramedics arrive.

