The film begins with the execution of GOMBURZA in the aftermath of the 1872 Cavite Mutiny. On July 3, 1892, Dr. Jose Rizal establishes ''La Liga Filipina'', a peaceful reform movement that aims to unite all Filipinos and give them one voice. One of its members is Andres Bonifacio, who is currently supporting his siblings, as both their parents died due to illness. Rizal is later arrested after the Spanish authorities uncover the organization. Bonifacio then decides to form the Katipunan to lead a revolution against the Spanish colonizers.

With the help of his friend Teodoro Plata, he meets Gregoria de Jesús, who is also known as Bantug and Oriang. Bonifacio visits the church, meeting Bantug again. She knows that he joined a group of Masons and is not religious. Bonifacio denies the accusations, saying that those are just inventions of the friars. Later that day, while walking on the street, they encounter a friend of Oriang, begging a friar to give his salary in the ''polo''. However, the friar refuses and instead makes derogatory remarks towards the man. Later, he is shot by one of the Spanish soldiers.

Bonifacio and Oriang's relationship develops and they finally marry after Bantug's parents give their approval. Then while recruiting additional ''katipuneros'', Bonifacio finds out that Teodoro and his sister Nonay are lovers. The following day, a ''gobernadorcillo'' named Emilio Aguinaldo is inducted to the Katipunan.

The Katipunan starts publishing the newspaper ''Ang Kalayaan'' through the printing press of ''Diario de Manila''. They distribute the papers to their fellow countrymen to further expand the organization. However, word of these subversive activities eventually reaches the Spanish authorities. After hearing this, the Spanish raid the Katipunan's Binondo press office wherein they discover ''Ang Kalayaan''. Because of this discovery, they begin to grow wary of anti-government activities.

Afterwards, one of the paper's publishers is tortured. Upon seeing the man's dead body, Bonifacio calls all the Katipuneros to gather in Tandang Sora's home. Tandang Sora gives a sword to Bonifacio for him to use during their fights against the Spaniards. Later on, Bonifacio declares the start of the revolution on August 29, 1896. All men tear their ''cedulas'' and they scream, "Mabuhay ang Katipunan! Mabuhay ang rebolusyon! Mabuhay ang Supremo!"

On the day of the revolution, they cross a river and secretly pull a foot of one of the Spanish soldiers while the other one is shot by Bonifacio. In the entrance of one of the officials' houses, Bonifacio throws a torch that is lit up in the trolley loaded with canisters and shoots it, letting them get inside the gate. A battle then ensues between the revolutionaries and the Spanish garrison. Eventually, Bonifacio is able to kill the Spanish commander by stabbing. After the battle, the Katipuneros replace the flag of Spain with the KKK flag.

Aguinaldo's comrades are concerned that the revolution might die under Bonifacio's leadership. They advise Aguinaldo to urge Bonifacio to come to Cavite to reunify the factions of the Magdiwang and Magdalo and hold an election for it. Aguinaldo is elected as the president, while Bonifacio is only elected as the interior minister. A Magdalo member, Daniel Tirona, objects to his election and insults him, angering Bonifacio who then challenges Tirona to a duel. Feeling discriminated, Bonifacio, as Supremo of the Katipunan, voids the election results. The newly formed, Aguinaldo-led revolutionary group is concerned about the unity of Katipunan after failing to persuade Bonifacio to join them. Aguinaldo then orders the capture of Bonifacio, during which Bonifacio is stabbed at the neck and suffers a gunshot wound in his arm. His brother Ciriaco is shot dead, while his other brother Procopio is beaten, and Oriang possibly raped by Col. Agapito Bonzón. Suffering from his untreated wounds, Bonifacio tells Oriang of his dream of finally achieving his wish of the country's independence against Spain. Later on, Andres and Procopio Bonifacio are sentenced to death.

At the end of the film, Bonifacio is shown holding his personal flag aloft while leading his troops in a charge against Spanish forces. His personal flag slowly turns into the present Philippine Flag. In the post-credits scene, Antonio Luna makes a cameo appearance (an actual part as a preparation for the film  ''Heneral Luna'').

