In Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Lara Brennan is sentenced to life in prison for murder. Three years later, her young son Luke ceases to acknowledge her during prison visits, despite the efforts of her husband John. Following the failure of Lara's appeal, her lawyer urges John to accept the evidence: after a public fight with her boss, Lara was seen leaving the parking lot where her boss was bludgeoned with a fire extinguisher; though Lara claims to have bumped into the real suspect, her fingerprints were on the murder weapon and the victim's blood was found on her coat. Out of legal options, Lara attempts suicide, and John becomes determined to break her out of prison.

John consults former inmate Damon Pennington, who wrote a book about his seven prison escapes, and makes the necessary preparations over the next three months, studying the routines inside Allegheny County Jail. Attempting to buy fake passports from a drug dealer, he is directed to a bar where he is instead beaten and robbed by the dealer and his friend. A deaf motorcyclist from the bar later sells him the forged documents for $3,700, and John buys a handgun. Nearly caught testing a bump key inside the jail, a panicked John is seen vomiting outside by the detectives who arrested Lara; they follow him home, suspicious that he has sold the house and his belongings. John also learns how to break into the van for the medical lab that conducts Lara's diabetes testing.

Learning that Lara will be transferred to a high-security prison in three days, John is unable to close the house sale in time and prepares to rob a bank, but cannot go through with it, and nearly runs over a mother and her child in his stress. A visit with Lara leads to an argument and, in a fit of quiet rage, she declares she is guilty, but John refuses to believe her. He tails a local drug dealer to a meth lab, setting fire to the building and taking the cash at gunpoint, but a shoot-out leaves one of the criminals dead. John breaks his tail light as he drives the wounded dealer to a hospital, but the man dies after being shot by his own boss during the shoot-out and John leaves his body at a bus stop along the road. John's father finds his plane tickets and realizes his plan, and they share a final goodbye. 

Setting his plan in motion, John cuts the lab's phone lines and plants falsified blood work in the van indicating that Lara is in a state of hyperkalemia, before leaving Luke at a birthday party. With her doctor unable to contact the lab, Lara is transferred to a hospital. Detectives trace John's broken tail light while investigating the meth lab incident and break into his empty house, realizing he is planning to free his wife. At the hospital, John incapacitates Lara's guards and convinces her to escape with him. Confronted by the detectives, they manage to slip away into a crowd of Pittsburgh Penguins fans and board the subway. John pulls the emergency stop, and they evade police in a getaway car he stashed nearby.

With Luke unexpectedly at the zoo for the birthday party, John realizes they have run out of time and turns onto the highway, saying they will find him later. Lara opens her car door, ready to fall onto the road and end their problems, but John narrowly saves her, and they risk retrieving Luke from the zoo. Picking up an elderly couple stranded at the locked down train station for cover, they pass through the police checkpoint and drive the couple to Buffalo, New York. Reaching a Canadian airport, John, Lara, and Luke board a flight to Venezuela using their fake passports, while police are misled by escape plan fragments John left behind.

Investigators return to the scene of the murder and a flashback reveals Lara's innocence. Searching a nearby storm drain, one of the detectives just misses the button that could have substantiated Lara's alibi. At a hotel in Caracas, John takes a picture of his sleeping wife and son.

