Rickie and J.T. are two high school seniors who gaze at the girls they wish they could get, especially Joann, the object of Rickie's affection, whom he has known since he was a child. One day, they decide to cut class and end up in an abandoned psychiatric hospital. They discover a mute, naked woman in the basement, chained to a table. While J.T. is interested in raping her, Rickie refuses and, after failing to dissuade J.T., leaves but, certain that his story will not be believed, tells no one about the woman. The next day, the two return to the basement where J.T. reveals that the woman is undead, which he discovered after attempting to kill her three times.

When Rickie finds that J.T. also invited their friend Wheeler to rape the woman, nicknamed "Deadgirl", he decides that it is time to free her. He is able to cut the chain on one hand before he hears J.T. and Wheeler approaching. He hides, and J.T. begins to rape her. After he notices that her hand is free, the woman attacks him and scratches his face.

Rickie asks Joann out on a date, knowing she has a boyfriend. She rejects him, and Joann's boyfriend Johnny and Johnny's friend Dwyer beat up Rickie and Wheeler. Wheeler rebuts that they "have their own pussy now" and Johnny throws them in his trunk, and drives to the asylum with Dwyer to see Deadgirl. Rickie convinces Johnny to force Deadgirl to perform oral sex on him, and Deadgirl bites Johnny's penis, infecting him. The next day, Johnny races to the bathroom during class and his intestines burst out of his body, leaving him in the same undead state as Deadgirl.

Having figured out that this is an infectious rotting disease, J.T. and Wheeler decide it is time to make a new Deadgirl with a fresh body. They lie in wait outside a gas station for a female victim. After an unsuccessful kidnapping, Joann confronts them about Johnny and they capture her. Rickie heads to the basement with a machete to free Deadgirl and finds Joann and Deadgirl tied up to each other, encircled by J.T. and Wheeler. J.T. tries to convince Rickie to let Joann be bitten while Wheeler starts to feel her up. Rickie defends her by slicing Wheeler's hand off while Joann unties Deadgirl, who feasts on Wheeler and J.T.

Rickie and Joann flee but cannot escape through the locked entrance. Rickie runs off to find an escape route, and when he returns, Joann is gone. He returns to the basement, where Deadgirl knocks him down, breaks down the door, and escapes outside. Rickie finds Joann and sees that J.T. has stabbed her in the back. J.T. urges Rickie to let him bite her so she will live undead. Rickie assures Joann that he loves her and will save her. She coughs blood into his face and rejects him again, then slowly dies afterwards.

Later, Rickie is seen living a seemingly normal life. He goes back to the asylum's basement, where,  tied up in bed in clean lingerie and romantic lighting, is his Deadgirl, Joann.

