In 1971, young Lucie Jurin escapes from a disused slaughterhouse where she has been imprisoned and tortured for more than a year. She is placed in an orphanage, where she befriends Anna Assaoui, who quickly discovers that Lucie believes she is being tormented by a disfigured, demonic woman.

Fifteen years later, in 1986, Lucie bursts into the home of an apparently normal family, the Belfonds — Gabrielle, her husband, and their two teenage children Marie and Antoine — and kills them with a shotgun. Lucie believes that the parents were involved in her torture as a child. Anna arrives and is horrified by the carnage but ultimately decides to help Lucie clean the crime scene and dispose of the bodies. Anna later discovers Gabrielle alive and tries to help her escape, but Lucie catches them and beats Gabrielle to death with a hammer. Lucie is again attacked by the demonic woman, but Anna only sees Lucie hurting herself; the demonic woman resembles another victim Lucie left behind at the slaughterhouse and is an ostensible psychological manifestation of Lucie's guilt. Lucie then runs outside and kills herself by slitting her own throat.

The following morning, Anna, while on the phone with her estranged abusive mother, discovers a secret passageway in the home's living room, leading to a subterranean chamber. Imprisoned in it is a horrifically brutalised and emaciated woman, proving Lucie was right about the Belfonds. Anna attempts to help the woman, who is hysterical and nonverbal. Anna removes a steel blindfold that has been stapled to the woman's skull and helps give her a bath, only to later find her mutilating her arm with a knife. A group of people arrive at the house, kill the woman, and capture Anna. The group's leader, identified only as Mademoiselle, explains that they belong to a secret society seeking to discover the secrets of the afterlife through the creation of "martyrs". They do this by capturing young women and inflicting on them systematic acts of torture, in the belief that their physical suffering will result in a transcendental insight into the world beyond. So far, the group have only produced "victims" who succumbed to the pain and are unable to speak but are determined to create martyrs who accept their suffering and report their visions of the afterlife.

Anna becomes the group's latest subject. After a period of being brutally beaten and degraded, she is told that she has progressed further than any other test subject and reached the "final stage." She is flayed alive, a procedure that she survives, and reportedly enters an "ecstatic" state. Mademoiselle arrives eagerly, and Anna whispers into her ear. Members of the society then gather at the house to pay veneration to Anna for her martyrdom, and to hear Mademoiselle's announcement of the groundbreaking testimony. While waiting for Mademoiselle, an assistant asks her from outside her door if what Anna said was clear. She unequivocally confirms and asks him in turn if he can imagine what comes after death. After he says no, Mademoiselle abruptly produces a handgun, tells him to "keep doubting", and kills herself.

An intertitle explains that "martyr" is Greek for "witness" and the film ends with a shot of Anna lying catatonic on a table. During the credits we see home movies of Anna and Lucie as children.

