James Hoyt and Kristen McKay arrive at night to James's isolated childhood summer home after attending a friend's wedding. Tension abounds between the couple, as Kristen rejected James's marriage proposal to her after the reception. James calls his friend Mike and asks him to pick him up in the morning. Shortly after 4:00&nbsp;a.m., there is a loud knock at the door. A young blonde woman, whose face is obstructed by poor lighting, asks the couple "Is Tamara here?" James tells her she is at the wrong house, and the woman leaves. 

James goes for a drive to purchase a pack of cigarettes for Kristen; before he departs, he starts a fire in the hearth. Shortly after, Kristen hears another knock on the door but does not open it. Upon asking who it is, she learns it is the same woman from earlier, asking for Tamara; Kristen reminds her that she already came by and locks the door. Kristen realizes the chimney flue is closed and attempts to open it; smoke emanating from the fire triggers a smoke alarm. Kristen attempts to disarm the alarm when she is startled by another knock at the door and drops the alarm on the floor. She calls James's cellphone from the landline, but their call is cut short. Kristen returns to the kitchen, where, unbeknownst to her, a masked man{{efn-lr|Credited as the Man in the Mask, and referred to as such hereinafter.}} watches her from an adjacent hallway.

Kristen notices the smoke alarm she left on the floor is now sitting on a chair and realizes someone has been in the house. Upon going to retrieve her cell phone from the charger, she finds it is missing and begins to panic. When she hears a noise from the backyard, she arms herself with a knife and opens the curtains to find the Man in the Mask staring at her. Horrified, she stumbles into the hallway and watches as the front door is forced ajar. When she tries to close the door, the blonde woman, now donning a doll mask,{{efn-lr|Credited as Dollface, and referred to as such hereinafter.}} peers inside. Kristen locks the door and retreats to the bedroom as the assailants bang on the walls of the home, before James returns. After Kristen explains what has happened, James goes outside to the car to obtain his phone, whereupon he finds the car ransacked and vandalized, and sees Dollface watching him from afar. The couple attempt to leave in James's car, but a masked brunette woman{{efn-lr|Credited as Pin-Up Girl, and referred to as such hereinafter.}} rear-ends them in a pickup truck, forcing them to flee back to the house.

Kristen and James find a shotgun and wait for the intruders in a bedroom. Mike arrives and the strangers shoot out his windshield. He enters the house, and James, mistaking him for one of the intruders, shoots him dead. Devastated, James remembers an old radio transmitter in a barn on the property. He leaves and encounters Pin-Up Girl, searching the backyard with a flashlight. When James tries to shoot her, the Man in the Mask ambushes him and knocks him unconscious, inadvertently discharging the shotgun. Kristen hears the shot and runs to the barn. She finds the radio, but Pin-Up Girl smashes it with an axe. Kristen rushes back to the house and encounters Dollface, who taunts her with a knife. She tries to escape but is knocked unconscious by the Man in the Mask. At dawn, the couple awaken to find themselves tied to chairs in the living room with the intruders standing before them. Kristen attempts to plead with the strangers, before demanding an explanation for their actions, to which Dollface replies, "Because you were home."

The offenders unmask themselves to Kristen and James before taking turns stabbing them in the chest and abdomen. Afterwards, they drive away in their truck and come across two young boys on bicycles distributing Christian religious tracts. Dollface steps out of the truck and asks if she can have one of their tract cards. One of the boys asks her, "Are you a sinner?" to which she responds, "Sometimes." The boy gives her one, and the strangers drive away as Pin-Up Girl states, "It'll be easier next time." The two boys come upon the house, where they discover the bloodied bodies of Kristen, James, and Mike inside. One of the boys approaches Kristen's body and attempts to touch it. As he reaches out to her, Kristen, still alive, startles him by grabbing his hand and screaming, before calling the police.

