The film opens with a news montage showing a dystopic near-future in which George W. Bush has been elected to a fourth term. The United States Congress has been disbanded; public nudity is banned; the United States is embroiled in wars with France, Iraq, Afghanistan, Iran, Pakistan, Syria, Venezuela, Canada, and Alaska. Due to there being too few soldiers for all the wars, a secret laboratory run by Dr. Chushfeld in fictional Sartre, Nebraska, has developed a virus to re-animate dead Marines and send them back into battle. However, this virus has broken containment and infected test subjects and scientists, and they are at risk of escaping from the lab. A team of Marines code-named the "Z" Squad is sent in to destroy the zombies. One of the Marines, named Byrdflough, is bitten but escapes. He ends up in an alley outside an underground strip club named "Rhino". The Marine dies and awakens as a zombie who goes into the club.

"Rhino" is run by Ian Essko. A new stripper named Jessy has arrived at the club to save up enough money for her grandmother's operation. She is introduced to the club's dancers, including star dancer Kat. Kat begins her dance on the stage, but is attacked by Byrdflough. Essko, concerned about losing his best dancer, lets her go back on stage as a zombie. To everyone's surprise, Kat is a better and more popular dancer as a zombie than she was as a human.

The other strippers now find themselves faced with the prospect of losing their customers, as the customers prefer zombie strippers to human strippers. One by one, the human strippers become zombies, some by choice in order to compete or (in the case of gothic rock stripper Lillith) for fun. During private dances, the zombie strippers bite and kill their customers. Essko tries to keep the zombies hidden in a cage in the club's cellar, but eventually, the zombies escape after Gaia, wanting to become one, releases the zombies, who overrun the club. Kat and the underrated stripper Jeannie fight for supremacy. The remaining humans in the club struggle to survive until the "Z" Squad burst in to destroy the zombies. They discover that the zombies have been allowed to escape by the Bush Administration in the hopes that the ensuing zombie plague would distract Americans from their gross mishandling of the war effort and the economy.

