One year after becoming chieftain,{{Refn|As depicted in ''How to Train Your Dragon 2'' (2014)|group=N}} Hiccup, his Night Fury Toothless, and their fellow dragon-riders continue to rescue captured dragons to bring them to Berk; however, the island is becoming overpopulated with dragons. In response, Hiccup desires to find the "Hidden World", a safe haven for dragons once spoken of by his late father, Stoick. Meanwhile, a white female "Light Fury" dragon, held captive by warlords, is given to an infamous dragon hunter Grimmel the Grisly as bait for him to capture Toothless for the warlords' use as an alpha.

Toothless discovers the white Fury in the woods, and the two become enchanted with each other until the Light Fury, sensing Hiccup's and Astrid's nearby presence, flees. Hiccup and Tuffnut later discover Grimmel's dragon traps in the area. Grimmel visits Hiccup that night, demanding he hand over Toothless while revealing he single-handedly killed every Night Fury species to near extinction, but Hiccup has prepared an ambush for him. Grimmel escapes while his Deathgripper dragons burn down Hiccup's house and Berk. Hiccup then rallies the citizens and dragons to leave Berk on a quest to find the Hidden World and safety from dragon hunters.

Mid-journey, the Berkians discover an island on which they initially plan to rest, but soon begin to settle there, dubbing it "New Berk". Seeing Toothless' inability to fly solo hindering his growing relationship with the Light Fury, Hiccup rebuilds an automatic tailfin for him.{{Refn|Hiccup had previously built an automatic tailfin for Toothless but Toothless later discarded it, as depicted in the short film ''Gift of the Night Fury'' (2011).|group=N}} Upon receiving it, Toothless flies off, meeting up with the Light Fury and flying with her to an unknown land. On a scouting patrol, Valka notices Grimmel's approaching army and reports back to Hiccup. Hiccup and the dragon riders head to capture Grimmel but fall into his trap and barely escape, but Ruffnut is captured, however, she irritates Grimmel until he lets her go.

Hiccup, Astrid, and her dragon Stormfly search for Toothless, finds the Hidden World, and see Toothless and the Light Fury leading the dragons as a happily mated couple. When the two humans are soon discovered, the inhabitant dragons attack them, but Toothless rescues them and returns them to the Berkians, with Hiccup realizing that humans would be intruders and unsafe in the Hidden World. Ruffnut returns, but unbeknownst to her, Grimmel had secretly followed her to New Berk. Grimmel appears and captures Toothless and the Light Fury, who had followed them to New Berk. Toothless' alpha status allows Grimmel to capture the rest of Berk's dragons by holding the Light Fury hostage.

With Astrid's encouragement, Hiccup sets out with the dragon riders to stop Grimmel and his army. Gliding on wingsuits, they catch Grimmel's army off-guard, igniting a battle, and freeing the dragons while killing Grimmel's men. With help from Stormfly, Hiccup frees Toothless while Grimmel drugs the Light Fury into obeying him. Hiccup and Toothless give chase and defeat Grimmel's Deathgrippers, but Grimmel tranquilizes Toothless midair, causing the dragon to fall helplessly. Hiccup, realizing he cannot rescue Toothless alone, frees the Light Fury and implores her to save Toothless, unfastening his prosthetic leg and causing both him and Grimmel to fall. Grimmel drowns in the ocean, while the Light Fury arrives to save Hiccup.

Back on the island, Toothless and Hiccup fully realize that dragons will never be safe in the human world and humans will never be allowed in the Hidden World. Hiccup bids an emotional farewell to Toothless as the Berkians tearfully set their dragons free to live in the Hidden World, with the Light Fury leading the dragons away and Toothless following them. Three months later, Hiccup and Astrid marry and become the chieftains of New Berk.

10 years later, Toothless and the Light Fury have mated and given birth to three hybrid dragon fledglings, Night Lights. Hiccup, Astrid, and their two children{{Refn|Later revealed to have been named Zephyr and Nuffink in the short film ''How to Train Your Dragon: Homecoming'' (2019)|group=N}} sail across the sea to visit them at the edge of the Hidden World. After introducing his son and daughter to his old friend, Hiccup and Astrid take their children flying on Toothless and Stormfly, accompanied by the Light Fury and their offspring. Hiccup vows that until humankind is ready to co-exist peacefully with one another, the dragons will stay hidden while the Berkians guard their secret.

