In a dystopian Japan, a mad scientist known as "Key Man" (Itsuji Itao) creates a virus that mutates humans into monstrous creatures called "Engineers" that sprout bizarre biomechanical weapons from injuries. To deal with Engineers, the Tokyo Police Force forms a special squad called "Engineer Hunters." The Hunters are a private quasi-military force that utilizes violence, sadism, and streetside executions to maintain law and order.

Among the Hunters is "Ruka" (Eihi Shiina), a troubled loner skilled in dispatching Engineers. Besides helping the police, she is obsessed with finding the mysterious assassin who killed her father, an old-fashioned officer, in broad daylight. Ruka receives a new case that leads to the Key Man himself. He infects her by inserting a key-shaped tumor into her scar-riddled left forearm before disappearing. Meanwhile, while visiting a strip-club featuring several Engineers as dancers, the "Police Chief" (Yukihide Benny) becomes infected. He massacres the main precinct, causing the "Tokyo Police Commissioner" (Shun Sugata) to order a city-wide crackdown on Engineers — indiscriminately executing anyone suspected of being one.

Continuing her investigation, Ruka learns that the Key Man was originally a scientist named "''Akino Miyama''", and confronts him at his home. There she learns the truth about their past. Akino's father was a police sniper forced to resign after a failed operation. Desperate to keep his family out of poverty, he agrees to assassinate Ruka's father, who was leading a rally against the privatization of the police force. Shortly after gunning down Ruka's father, Akino's father was killed by the police commissioner — the real mastermind. Determined to avenge his father's death, Akino injected himself with the DNA of several infamous criminals, turning himself into the Key Man. Realizing they are seeking vengeance on the same man, Ruka slices Akino in half with her katana and heads back to the precinct. 

On her way, she witnesses the police force brutalizing civilians accused of being Engineers. When her friend, a local bar owner (Ikuko Sawada), is drawn and quartered, Ruka's left arm mutates into an alien-like head with razor-sharp claws before she beheads the officers behind the execution. During her rampage, she is shot in the right eye by one of the officers, but her body quickly replaces it with a biomechanical one. Ruka confronts the police commissioner, who admits to her father's assassination, but explains that upon learning of the Key Man and the Engineers, he raised her to become the perfect Engineer Hunter as a form of atonement. Following a grueling sword fight, Ruka dismembers and eventually decapitates the commissioner — effectively bringing down his reign on the police force.

The post-credit scene reveals Key Man is alive, having mended himself back with the help of one of his test subjects.

