Having returned from Miami to the French Riviera, Frank Martin is unsuccessfully fishing with his friend Inspector Tarconi, who later receives a call about a black Audi A8 that sped past French customs and evaded the police in a car chase. While Tarconi returns to headquarters to give Frank's alibi in Odesa, the Environmental Agency Minister Leonid Tomilenko receives a threat from corrupt Ecocorp official Jonas Johnson to reopen business negotiations. At night, the Audi crashes into Frank's home with a wounded transporter Malcolm Melville, whom Frank had referred when he declined a previous job. 

As paramedics take away Malcolm, Frank discovers a woman in the back seat of the Audi who warns him not to take her from the car – she shows him a metal bracelet she and Malcolm have been wearing which explodes if it gets too far from the vehicle. Frank rushes outside, but the ambulance gets out of range and explodes, killing Malcolm. Frank is then knocked out by one of Johnson's henchmen. Johnson places an explosive bracelet on Frank, thus forcing him to take a package and the woman named Valentina to Budapest. Tomilenko negotiates to postpone signing Ecocorp's agreement that would allow the ship with the chemicals into his country. While Tarconi researches into Johnson's motivations, Frank goes off-course and visits a garage to try to deal with the bracelet. 

After defeating Johnson's men, Frank's mechanic friend Otto cannot disarm the device on the car. In Budapest, Johnson tells Frank that he is fired. One of Johnson's men steals the Audi with Valentina inside, thus leaving Frank to chase him down by bicycle and retrieve them both. After Frank and Johnson agree to call it even, Johnson sends him to Bucharest, but Frank and Valentina are chased by a black Mercedes-Benz E-Class driven by Tomilenko's agents. After opening the package in the trunk, Frank realizes Valentina is the real package. Valentina then seduces Frank by holding his car keys, resulting in them having sex. Valentina, who is revealed to be Tomilenko's daughter, explains that she was drugged in Ibiza and was transported by Malcolm in order for Johnson to blackmail her father. 

Johnson redirects him to Odesa, where he and his men surround them on a bridge. Although Valentina is delivered to Johnson and her bracelet removed, Johnson's men shoot at Frank's car. Frank drives off the bridge into the lake, fooling Johnson into believing that he is dead, but survives by using the air from the car's tires to inflate a buoying device. Aboard the train, Johnson lets Tomilenko talk to Valentina and gives him 15 minutes to sign the contract. After Tarconi and the Ukrainian police retrieve Frank and the Audi, Frank continues his chase and jumps the car on top of the train containing Johnson and his men, where he takes out all of Johnson's men, but cannot attack Johnson because he is too far from his car. 

After Johnson separates the train cabs, Frank jumps his car into the cab and beats Johnson, strapping him with the bracelet and sending his car into reverse. Johnson breaks free, but is inevitably blown into pieces inside the cab. Frank reunites with Valentina in the rubble. Upon hearing from Tarconi that Valentina is safe, Tomilenko tears up the Ecocorp contracts before heading for his business conference. The cargo ship is raided by police and sent away from Ukrainian shores, while Frank and Tarconi return to fishing in Marseilles. Valentina, who is in the boat with them, suggests they eat out at a nearby restaurant instead.

