In Chicago, Wesley Gibson works at a dead-end desk job with an overbearing boss, takes medication for panic attacks, and lives with his abrasive girlfriend Cathy who cheats on him with his co-worker and best friend, Barry. One evening, Wesley is told by a woman named Fox that his recently murdered father was an assassin. The killer, Cross, is now hunting him. When Cross and Fox engage in a shootout, Wesley panics and flees. Cross pursues Wesley, who Fox manages to help escape. Wesley awakens in a factory surrounded by Fox and other assassins. The group's leader, Mr. Sloan, forces Wesley at gunpoint to shoot the wings off of several flies, which he does, much to Wesley's shock. Sloan explains that Wesley's panic attacks are actually a rare ability that allows him to produce massive amounts of adrenaline, granting him superhuman strength and speed. Wesley's father and Cross were members of the Fraternity, a society of assassins that maintains balance in the world. Their headquarters are a repurposed textile mill. Sloan wants to train Wesley so that he may help kill Cross.

A panicked Wesley leaves the building. The next morning, he discovers that his bank account now contains $3.6 million. Filled with new confidence, he insults his boss in front of the whole office and hits Barry in the face with a keyboard. Wesley trains under the Fraternity's cruel tutelage, learning to control his abilities. The assassins teach him speed,  marksmanship,  hand-to-hand combat, explosives, and pain resistance. When his training is complete, Sloan shows him the "Loom of Fate", which has served for 1,000 years in supplying coded names of targets through deliberate imperfections in the fabric. The Loom identifies those who will create evil and chaos in the future, with Sloan responsible for interpreting the code. Fox's father was a judge, and his defendant hired a hitman who burned him alive in front of her. After joining the Fraternity, she learned the hitman's name appeared in the Loom before he killed her father. This has made her a devoted follower of the Fraternity's code.

After several successful missions, Wesley has an unexpected shootout with Cross, who accidentally kills the Exterminator. Sloan sends Wesley after Cross—and secretly gives Fox a mission to kill Wesley, saying that his name has come up in the Loom. Analyzing a wound from the fight, Wesley realizes that Cross used a traceable bullet for the first time (as his previous kills were all untraceable). Wesley traces it to a man named Pekwarsky. He and Fox capture Pekwarsky, who arranges a meeting with Cross. Wesley faces Cross alone on a moving train, which Fox later causes to derail. While Cross saves Wesley from falling, Wesley shoots him. Before dying, Cross reveals that he is Wesley's real father. Wesley was recruited because he was the only person Cross would not kill. After free-falling into a river, Wesley is retrieved by Pekwarsky, who explains that Sloan started manufacturing targets for profit after his name appeared in the Loom. Cross discovered the truth, went rogue, and started killing Fraternity members to keep them away from his son.

In order to finish what his father started, Wesley decides to kill Sloan. He attacks the base using explosive rats and kills surviving Fraternity assassins in a shootout. Entering Sloan's office, he is surrounded by Fox and the remaining assassins. Wesley discloses Sloan's deception. Sloan admits his name appeared in the loom alongside the names of those present, saying he had acted to protect them. He gives the members a choice: kill themselves, per the code, or kill Wesley and use their skills to control the world. As the others choose to kill Wesley, Fox curves a bullet around the room, choosing to follow the code and kill everyone, including herself. Sloan escapes in the mayhem. Wesley, penniless again due to his bank account being wiped out by Sloan, apparently returns to his desk job. Sloan arrives to kill him but is shocked when the person turns around and is revealed to be a decoy. Wesley kills Sloan with a sniper rifle from Cross' apartment miles away.

