In 1928, Arthur Spiderwick writes a field guide about the many fairies he has encountered. After finishing the Book, he hides it away for fear of Mulgarath, a shapeshifting ogre who plans to use the Book's secrets for evil.
 	
Eighty years later, recently divorced Helen Grace inherits and moves into the abandoned Spiderwick estate with her children, daughter Mallory and twin sons Jared and Simon. Jared is angry about the move and would rather live with his father, Richard Grace. After uncovering a hidden dumbwaiter, Jared discovers Arthur's study where he finds the Field Guide. When Jared explains his discovery of the Book and the existence of magical creatures, his family does not believe him.
 	
The next morning, Jared meets a brownie named Thimbletack, who is initially angry with Jared for having opened the book that Thimbletack was supposed to be protecting from Mulgarath. Jared placates him with crackers and honey, and Thimbletack gives Jared a holed stone that allows Jared to see the normally invisible faeries by looking through it. Thimbletack tells him about the protective mushroom circle surrounding the house.
 	
Jared then witnesses Simon's abduction by goblins, led by Redcap. Simon is taken to the goblins' campsite where he is confronted by Mulgarath who is disguised as an old man. Jared sneaks into the campsite to save him where he meets Hogsqueal, a hobgoblin who gives Jared the ability to see faeries without the stone by spitting in his eyes so that he can help him get revenge on Mulgarath for killing his family. Mulgarath releases Simon so he can fetch the Book for him. Jared finds Simon and both fight over the Book before they are chased by the goblins. The twins flee back to the house, and Mallory, upon almost being ambushed by the goblins, realizes Jared was right and fights them off with her fencing sabre.
	
After failing to try and burn the Book due to a protective spell over it, the children decide to visit Arthur's daughter, their great-aunt Lucinda Spiderwick, for advice. While Simon distracts the goblins, Mallory and Jared take the Book and escape through an underground tunnel. Chased by a troll sent by Redcap, they narrowly escape when it is struck and killed by an oncoming truck. Jared and Mallory meet the elderly Lucinda in the psychiatric hospital where she lives, surrounded by sprites. She tells the children that they need to find her father and have him destroy the Book and that, for eighty years, Arthur has been held captive by the sylphs. At that moment, Redcap and his goblins attack them through the window and manage to tear off several pages from the Book before being driven off. Among the stolen pages, Mulgarath is pleased to find information on how to break the protective circle.
 	
While Helen is driving Jared and Mallory home, she and Jared argue over her disbelief; Jared angrily tells his mother that he hates her and does not want to live with her anymore. Later, Hogsqueal, having overheard Mulgarath's plan, informs the children while also giving Simon and Mallory the ability to see faeries as well. Jared then tries to call his father again, but a sympathetic Mallory tells him that their father has moved in with another woman after his and Helen's divorce and will not be coming for him, causing a heartbroken Jared to regret his angry words to Helen earlier. Jared, Simon, and Mallory then use the Book to summon a griffin, which takes them to the sylphs' realm. There, they meet Arthur, who has not aged and is unaware of the time he has spent there. Jared asks him to destroy the Book only to find out that Thimbletack had switched the pages with a cookbook and kept the real Book. Arthur is relieved until Jared tells him that Mulgarath knows how to break the protective circle. Arthur informs Jared that the sylphs will not allow them to leave as they, like him, know too much about the faeries and do not want them to reveal their existence to the world. Arthur helps them escape by distracting the sylphs with the fake book.
	
At home, the children finally convince their mother of the truth when they save her from the goblins' attempted ambush and she then sees Thimbletack upon her return home. Meanwhile, the goblins finish spreading their potion, which successfully breaks the circle as the full moon rises. The family defend themselves with kitchen knives and tomato sauce/salt bombs (ingredients deadly to goblins) that Simon and Thimbletack made earlier and manage to kill Redcap and the goblins in an explosion of tomato sauce. Suddenly, Richard appears, claiming that he has decided to come back and stay with them; however, Jared, having remembered what Mallory told him earlier, stabs him, revealing him to be Mulgarath in disguise. Mulgarath then pursues Jared and the Book throughout the house before cornering him on the roof. Jared outwits the ogre by tossing the book over the side of the roof. Mulgarath transforms into a bird to catch it, but he is suddenly grabbed and eaten by Hogsqueal, as hobgoblins love to eat birds. Afterwards, Jared and his mother reconcile, with Jared deciding to live with her, and they help Simon, Mallory, and Hogsqueal gather the Book's scattered pages.
 	
Several weeks later, the family brings Lucinda to visit Thimbletack and the house. The sylphs then arrive with Arthur, allowing him to briefly visit now that the Book is safe. However, Arthur cannot stay long as he will turn to dust if he remains. Lucinda asks to go with him and is transformed back into a child. The Grace family watch as the sylphs spirit Arthur and Lucinda away before resuming their normal lives with Thimbletack, Hogsqueal, and the griffin.

