New York teenager Clary Fray begins seeing and drawing a strange symbol, worrying her mother Jocelyn and family friend, Luke Garroway. At a crowded nightclub with friend Simon Lewis only Clary witnesses Jace Wayland and his accomplices killing a man. The next day, two men, Emil Pangborn and Samuel Blackwell, arrive at the Fray apartment searching for a cup. Jocelyn calls Clary, telling her to stay away and warn Luke about someone named Valentine; she then drinks a potion putting her in a deep sleep. Returning home, Clary finds her mother missing and is attacked by a dog-like creature. Jace, a "Shadowhunter", appears and kills it, explaining that it, like the "man" killed at the nightclub, was a demon.

The Frays' neighbor, Madame Dorothea, is a witch and helps Jace deduce that Pangborn and Blackwell seek the Mortal Cup, a lost artifact. Jace and Clary, along with Simon, go to Luke's antique store. Pangborn and Blackwell are interrogating Luke who, to protect Clary and Jocelyn, claims he cares nothing about the Frays and only wants the Cup. The trio escapes to the Shadowhunter Institute, a hidden cathedral-like building, where Jace treats Clary, who was stung by the demon. She and Simon meet two other Shadowhunters, siblings Alec and Isabelle Lightwood, and Shadowhunter leader, Hodge. Invisible to mortals, Shadowhunters are half-human, half-angel demon slayers. Clary has inherited her Shadowhunter mother's powers, including drawing temporary magical runes on the skin. The Cup is one of three Mortal Instruments given to the first Shadowhunter by the Angel Raziel. Shadowhunters are either descended from other Shadowhunters or made by drinking from the Cup. Valentine Morgenstern, an ex-Shadowhunter who betrayed the order, seeks the Cup to control both Shadowhunters and demons.

Jace takes Clary to the City of Bones, a sanctuary beneath a cemetery. While attempting to unlock Clary's blocked memories, the Silent Brothers uncover a connection to Magnus Bane, the High Warlock of Brooklyn. At Bane's nightclub, he tells Clary that Jocelyn had him block knowledge of the Shadowhunter world from Clary's mind. When Vampires kidnap Simon, Jace, Alec, Isabelle, and Clary trail them to their hideout. They find Simon, but vampires outnumber them. Werewolves intervene and save them.

As Simon recovers at the institute, Clary notices two puncture marks on his shoulder, while he discovers he no longer needs eyeglasses. Clary shares an evening with Jace, ending in a kiss. When Simon jealously confronts Clary about it, she downplays the incident, angering Jace. Simon confesses he loves Clary, who does not reciprocate his feelings.

Clary realizes the Cup is hidden inside one of Madame Dorothea's tarot cards that her mother painted as a gift. The group goes to Dorothea's apartment, where a demon has replaced her. Simon and Jace kill it, but Alec is lethally stung. Clary retrieves the Cup card, and they return to the institute. Hodge summons Magnus Bane to heal Alec.

Clary removes the Cup from the card and gives it to Hodge, who betrays them by summoning Valentine through a portal and giving him the Cup. When Valentine reveals he is Clary's father, she refuses to join him. She puts the Cup back into the card, then escapes through the portal that transports her to Luke's store. Luke, revealed to be the werewolf who helped fight the vampires, confirms that Valentine is her father. Clary also had an older brother named Jonathan, who died as a toddler. Luke and his werewolf pack go to the institute with Clary to battle Valentine who summons demons through a roof opening. Simon finds Jocelyn, still unconscious, at the institute. He and Isabelle close the opening with help from a repentant Hodge.

Clary and Jace fight Valentine, who lies by claiming Jace is his son. Clary tricks Valentine by giving him a replica Cup, then pushes him into the portal, destroying it. Jocelyn is rescued but remains unresponsive at the hospital. Clary uses her new-found powers to repair the apartment. Jace arrives, confessing he needs her. He disbelieves they are siblings and plans to uncover the truth. Realizing she belongs in the Shadowhunter world, Clary returns to the Institute with Jace.

