In 2014, Peter Quill, Gamora, Drax, Rocket, and Baby Groot are renowned as the Guardians of the Galaxy. High Priestess Ayesha of the Sovereign race has the Guardians protect valuable Anulax batteries from an Abilisk, an inter-dimensional monster, in exchange for Nebula, Gamora's estranged sister, who was caught trying to steal the batteries. After Rocket steals the batteries for himself, the Sovereign attacks the Guardians' ship with a fleet of drones. A mysterious figure destroys the drones and the Guardians crash-land on Berhert, a nearby forest planet. The figure reveals himself as Ego,  Quill's father, and introduces Mantis, his naïve empath servant. Ego invites Quill, Gamora, and Drax to his home planet, while Rocket and Groot remain behind to repair the ship and watch Nebula.

Ayesha hires Yondu Udonta and his crew, who have been exiled from the greater Ravager community for child trafficking, to recapture the Guardians. They capture Rocket, but Yondu hesitates to turn over Quill, whom he raised. Kraglin Obfonteri, his lieutenant, questions his objectivity, and Taserface, another Ravager, leads a mutiny, aided by Nebula, who shoots off Yondu's arrow-controlling fin. Taserface imprisons Rocket and Yondu aboard Yondu's ship and executes every one of his loyalists. Nebula leaves to find and kill Gamora, who she blames for the torture inflicted on her by Thanos, their adoptive father. Kraglin, who is remorseful and never signed up for a mutiny, helps Groot free Rocket and Yondu, and the group, with Yondu's arrow fin repaired, set the ''Eclector'' to self-destruct during their escape. Taserface informs the Sovereign before dying in the explosion.

Ego, a god-like Celestial that manipulated the matter around his consciousness to form his "home" planet, explains that he projected a humanoid guise to travel the universe and discover a purpose, eventually falling in love with Meredith, Quill's mother. Ego hired Yondu to collect the young Quill after Meredith's death, but the boy was never delivered, and Ego has been searching for him ever since. He teaches Quill to manipulate his inherited Celestial power, while Mantis grows close to Drax and tries to warn him of Ego's plans. Nebula arrives at Ego's planet and tries to kill Gamora, but the pair reconcile and reach an uneasy alliance, soon discovering a cavern filled with skeletal remains. Ego brainwashes Quill and reveals that in his travels, he planted seedlings on thousands of worlds that can terraform into new extensions of himself, but only the power of two Celestials can activate them. To that end, he impregnated countless women and hired Yondu to collect their offspring, but killed them all when they failed to inherit his Celestial power. Furious in realization that Ego gave Meredith the brain tumor that killed her{{efn|As depicted in ''Guardians of the Galaxy (film)''}}, Quill fights off Ego's influence and violently attacks him, and Ego parasitically draws Quill's energy to activate the seedlings, which begin to consume the planets that they are planted on.

Rocket, Yondu, Groot, and Kraglin arrive, and together with Mantis, Drax, Nebula, and Gamora, they rescue Quill. The Guardians travel to Ego's brain at the planet's core, where Yondu reveals that he kept Quill to spare him from Ego. As the Sovereign's drones return and attack the Guardians, Rocket makes a bomb using the stolen batteries, which Groot plants on Ego's brain. Quill uses his newfound Celestial powers to fight Ego, distracting him long enough for the other Guardians and Mantis to escape. The bomb explodes, killing Ego and disintegrating the planet, which drains Quill of his Celestial powers. Yondu sacrifices himself to save Quill by letting himself die in the vacuum of space. Despite having reconciled with Gamora, Nebula chooses to leave and resume her quest to kill Thanos; the Guardians, with Mantis as a new member, hold a funeral for Yondu. Rocket and Kraglin are elated as dozens of Ravager ships arrive, acknowledging Yondu's sacrifice and accepting him as a Ravager again.

In a series of mid- and post-credit scenes, Kraglin takes up Yondu's telekinetic arrow and control-fin; Ravager leader Stakar Ogord reunites with his ex-teammates; Ayesha creates Adam, a new artificial being with whom she plans to destroy the Guardians;{{efn|Identified off-screen as Adam Warlock, who director James Gunn initially planned to feature prominently in the film. The character is hinted at in this mid-credits scene to set up his appearance in ''Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3''.<ref name="WarlockCredits" /><ref name="AdamWarlock" /><ref name="Poulter" />}} and Groot grows into a teenager.{{efn|Gunn said this sequence with an adolescent Groot is set "years after" the ending of the film, with the character appearing in the same state in ''Avengers: Infinity War''.<ref name="GrootAgePostCredit" />}}

