In 1916, a group of young Americans go to France to serve in the French Air Service, ''L'Aéronautique militaire'' during World War I. The recruits are under the command of French Captain Georges Thenault, with veteran flying ace Reed Cassidy as their mentor.

The pilots struggle to meet the demands of flying, preparing for the aerial dogfights that dominate missions to the front lines. Pilot Blaine Rawlings meets a young woman named Lucienne after his plane runs out of fuel and crashes during a practice flight. Over time, they develop a relationship despite her hesitations about his risky profession.

On their first mission, escorting bombers to attack a German ammunition depot in Jametz, the rookie pilots are ambushed by Germans. Two are killed in the battle (Toddman and Dewitt), and a third (Nunn) successfully makes an emergency landing, but is killed on the ground by "The Black Falcon", a German pilot flying a black aircraft; the more chivalrous German pilot Franz Wolferd shakes his head in disapproval.

During a later battle, Rawlings' machine gun jams.  Wolferd, the pilot he was chasing, flies beside him and salutes before banking away, sparing his opponent's life as penance for the unfair killing of Nunn on the ground. Higgins is killed during the battle, and Jensen suffers an emotional breakdown during the night, unable to fly anymore due to shock. Beagle is accused of being a spy due to faked personal information but comes clean about a crime he committed in the United States, and is allowed to stay on.

When the Germans attack a column of civilians, the American pilots head off to stop them. Rawlings kills Wolferd during the engagement after sparing him once when the German dives after another American. Beagle's plane is brought down over no man's land, and the plane pins his hand. Rawlings lands his plane and make his way to Beagle, but can't free him. He is forced to chop Beagle's hand off to get him to safety with the help of a few French soldiers that left the trenches to free him.

Learning that German forces have advanced into Lucienne's village, Rawlings steals a plane in the middle of the night to rescue them, but Lucienne is wounded and taken to a hospital.  Returning to base, he is praised by the commander and awarded the Croix de Guerre medal for bravery.

Ordered to attack a German zeppelin, Porter is killed and Reed Cassidy is mortally wounded by the Black Falcon.  Before succumbing to his wounds, Reed purposely crashes into the zeppelin, destroying it. Rawlings reunites with Lucienne before she leaves for Paris. Rawlings’ plane is presented with an eagle, which was Cassidy's insignia, and he is promoted to Squadron Leader.

After escorting another bomber run on the ammunition depot in Jametz in which Lowry is forced to shoot himself when his plane catches fire, Rawlings takes off to exact revenge on the Black Falcon. Rawlings is attacked by multiple enemy planes, but Jensen, who had broken down earlier but decided to keep flying, helps him shoot down all the enemy fighters except the Black Falcon. With the enemy fighters shot down, Rawlings engages in a dogfight with the Falcon. After being bested in combat and wounded, Rawlings comes alongside and fatally shoots the Black Falcon with his pistol. Rawlings and his squadron return to base.

The film ends with scenes of the surviving pilots' lives after the battle. Jensen flies for the rest of the war, returning to Nebraska where he receives a hero's welcome. Skinner enlists in the US Army but is kept from flying due to his race; he later joins the Airmail Service. Beagle marries an Italian woman and starts a flying circus. Rawlings goes to Paris but does not find Lucienne. He builds one of the largest ranches in Texas, but never flies again.

