When Prosper and Boniface's parents die, their aunt Esther plans to adopt five-year-old Bo and send 12-year-old Prosper away to boarding school. But before she can separate the two, Prosper takes Bo to Venice, the city about which their mother had often told them stories. In Venice, the boys meet the Thief Lord, a mask-wearing teenager named Scipio. The Thief Lord invites the boys to come to his hideout, an abandoned cinema called the Stella, which is also home to three orphaned children Scipio has rescued: Hornet, Riccio, and Mosca. Meanwhile, the boys' aunt and uncle, Esther and Max Hartlieb have traveled to Venice to find their nephews and hired Victor Getz to help.

Scipio's newest client, a mysterious man known as the Conte, asks them to steal a wooden wing, a fragment of the long-lost merry-go-round of the Merciful Sisters. Scipio asks the gang to help stake out the mansion where the wing is kept while he goes away for a few days. Getz discovers that Scipio is not a poor orphan at all, but the son of the wealthy Dr. Massimo. When Scipio doesn't show up for the stakeout the next day, the gang is confused. They find out that Scipio has lied to them about being an orphan and that all his 'loot' is from his father's house.

When the gang go to steal the wooden wing, they accidentally wake the owner of the house, Ida Spavento. Ida agrees to let them take the wing so long as she comes with them. She takes them to the convent of the Merciful Sisters, where they learn the mystical secret of the merry-go-round: children who ride it become adults, and adults become children. Scipio takes them all on a boat to meet the Conte. The transaction goes off without a hitch.

Barbarossa, the antique dealer who serves as the gang's fence, leads police to the Stella, where they take Hornet and Bo and close down the Stella. Prosper and the others return to find Hornet and Bo gone. Thinking Getz sold them out, they confront him. Getz insists he is on their side, then tells them that the money the Conte gave them is fake. Ida and Getz get Hornet from the Merciful Sisters, with whom the police have left her, and Ida allows the gang to stay at her place. That night, Scipio sneaks out of his father's mansion and persuades Prosper to come with him to ride the merry-go-round and become an adult.

Bo returns to the Stella. Getz finds Bo and brings him back to Ida's house. Meanwhile, the Conte and his sister the Contessa are now children, having ridden the merry-go-round. The Conte offers a ride on the merry-go-round as payment in lieu of money. Scipio and Barbarossa take the offer. Scipio becomes an adult and Barbarossa a young child.

Prosper is reunited with Bo. The now-adult Scipio becomes Getz's new partner in the detective business. The aunt and uncle try to snatch Bo until Scipio returns and forces them out at gunpoint. Riccio and Mosca take the money they deserve from Barbarossa's safe and split it amongst the gang. Scipio uses his share to buy the boys a boat and establishes bank accounts for the others. In the final scene, Victor, Ida, Prosper, Hornet, and Bo are on Scipio's old boat. Ida comments that they would make a great family.

