Wolf, Granny, and Twitchy are on a rescue mission to save Hansel and Gretel from an evil witch named Verushka. However, the plan goes wrong and Granny is kidnapped as well. Meanwhile, Red is in training with a mysterious group called the Sisters of the Hood, where she learns that a secret, all-powerful truffle recipe has been stolen. She is assigned by detective Nicky Flippers, along with Wolf and Twitchy, to find the recipe and save her grandma.

While getting info at the Giant’s nightclub and interrogating his harp, Red and company learn that an incarcerated Boingo the Bunny has been having specific ingredients sent to Verushka, who was also at the prison and narrowly escapes the team. Red and Wolf argue over who let her get away and the team splits up.
Meanwhile, Verushka, who stole the truffle recipe, tries to force Granny into making it for her. Granny escapes and finds Hansel and Gretel, but learns that they are actually the masterminds behind the plot. Granny is recaptured and finds out that Verushka was an old classmate of hers when they were both in training with the Sisters of the Hood – Verushka was always second best behind Granny’s accomplishments, and eventually grew so jealous of her that she teamed up with Hansel and Gretel to get revenge.

After some convincing by Twitchy, Wolf decides to apologize to Red, but he is encountered by The Three Pigs, who are now part of a pig mercenary group hired by Hansel and Gretel, and barely manages to escape. They make it back to HQ, only to find it abandoned and damaged by Hansel and Gretel’s pig henchmen. On their way to the witch’s lair, Wolf and Twitchy rescue Red, who was caught after trying to sneak in first. The two make up and infiltrate the siblings’ base with help from Kirk the Woodsman and his yodeling troupe. Red accidentally reveals the final ingredient for the truffle recipe – macadamia nuts –, and the truffles are made.

Hansel and Gretel eat the truffles, (which made them grow in size into giants probably due to the side effect on the truffles they ate and to the extent of becoming invincible), and then go on a rampage through the city. they betray Verushka, leaving her to be eaten by a giant spider with Granny, Red, Wolf, and Twitchy. Granny persuades her to join forces with her and her friends. Soon, they trick Hansel and Gretel into eating more truffles, (which makes them inflate and become immobile in a beach ball-like shape instead of making them more invincible and grow  even bigger in size) – at some point, as the two siblings grow so much that they can no longer move their arms and legs, and they are arrested and condemned to eat broccoli. Nicky recruits the team for another mission.

