Several months after the events of the previous film, Bella Swan and Edward Cullen are happily getting married. During the reception, Jacob Black, who had left town upon receiving an invitation to the wedding, returns, much to Bella's delight.  They share a dance in the woods, where Bella shares that she and Edward plan to consummate their marriage on their honeymoon while she is still human. Jacob becomes furious, knowing that such an act could kill her.

After the wedding, Bella and Edward travel to Isle Esme for their honeymoon, and they make love for the first time. Two weeks later, Bella vomits after waking and notices that her period is late. She informs Carlisle, Edward's adoptive father, that she believes she is pregnant. Edward is distraught, as it is highly unlikely a human will survive giving birth to a vampire's baby.

Edward encourages Bella to receive an abortion from Carlisle; she refuses, and convinces Edward's sister Rosalie to be her bodyguard. They fly back home to Forks, where Jacob rushes to the Cullens' house to find a pale, underweight, and visibly pregnant Bella. He implores her to terminate the pregnancy immediately, but Bella opts to continue it.

Jacob storms out of the Cullens' residence and meets in the woods with his packmates. Sam believes the baby will not be able to control its craving for human blood once it is born and suggests they kill Bella to ensure her child does not harm anyone. Jacob refuses, and the ensuing arguments prompts him and several other wolves to disperse from Sam's pack to form their own.

As Bella's pregnancy progresses, her health declines rapidly. She soon realizes the baby is craving blood, and begins drinking human blood obtained by Carlisle from the hospital, improving her health. As a half-vampire, the fetus's development is far more accelerated than that of a human fetus, and thus Bella's pregnancy progresses at an alarming rate. Edward's resentment for the baby dissolves when he discovers he can read its thoughts.

When Bella suddenly goes into labor, Edward, Jacob, and Rosalie begin performing an emergency cesarean section while Carlisle is out obtaining blood. The procedure is excruciatingly painful, and Bella falls unconscious, though she wakes to find she has delivered a healthy daughter, whom she names Renesmee (a combination of her mother's name and Edward's mother's name).

Bella's heart suddenly stops, and Jacob desperately attempts CPR. Edward injects Bella's heart with his venom in an attempt to transform her into a vampire, but his action appears to be futile as Bella remains lifeless. A distraught Jacob decides to kill Renesmee for apparently causing Bella's death; however, when they look into each other's eyes, he imprints on her, preventing his pack from killing her as their most absolute law is not to harm anyone who has been imprinted on.

Over the course of two days, Bella's injuries heal and her figure returns to normal. Finally, her eyes become blood-red, signifying that she has become a vampire.

In a post-credits scene, the Volturi's secretary Bianca delivers a message from Carlisle which summarizes Bella and Edward's wedding and Bella's transformation into a vampire. Aro has Bianca killed by Demetri and Felix for misspelling Carlisle's name. The two other Volturi banter about how Carlisle is growing his coven and that the Volturis' dispute with the Cullens is over. However, Aro disagrees, saying they still have something he wants.

