Alice and her clones lead the assault on Umbrella HQ, in Tokyo, slaying the entire branch except for Albert Wesker, who escapes in a tiltrotor plane and detonates a bomb that leaves a massive sinkhole. The real Alice boarded beforehand and attempted to execute Wesker, only for him to inject her with an anti-virus to remove her superhuman abilities. Wesker is revealed to have used the T-virus to gain his own superhuman abilities and prepares to kill Alice before the plane crashes into the mountains.

Six months later, Alice travels to Alaska in an airplane, tracking broadcasts from a safe haven called ''Arcadia''; she only finds abandoned planes and is attacked by a feral Claire Redfield. Alice destroys a spider-like device on Claire's chest, giving her amnesia and pacifying her. They travel to the ruins of Los Angeles, where they find survivors living in a prison surrounded by thousands of undead. They meet Luther West, who leads the surviving band from the prison, Wendell, Crystal Waters, Bennett, Kim Yong, and Angel Ortiz. With their help, Alice lands on the prison's roof and learns ''Arcadia'' is not a fixed place, but a cargo tanker traveling along the coast. However, the ship has not moved recently and no one from it has responded to the group's rescue flares. Luther takes Alice to the last inmate, Chris, who insists he is falsely imprisoned and will reveal an escape route in exchange for freedom. Alice goes to the showers to wash up but catches Wendell attempting to peep. Holding him at gunpoint, they are attacked by a group of infected that dug into the prison. They take Wendell, but Alice wards off the rest.

Desperate, they free Chris, who reveals that Claire is his sister, and the prison has an armored car they can use to escape. However, a giant axe-wielding monster begins breaking down the gate. Alice, Chris, and Crystal go to the basement armory to get more guns, but zombies kill Crystal en route. Luther and Claire reinforce the gate. Angel informs Bennett and Yong the car is missing its engine, and it would take a week to fix. Bennett shoots Angel and heads for ''Arcadia'' in Alice's airplane. The Axeman breaks down the gate, allowing the zombies into the prison. The group decides to use the zombie-dug tunnels to escape into the sewers. Yong is slashed in half by the Axeman, while Alice is knocked out. Claire successfully defends Alice and disorients the Axeman, after which Alice kills it by firing at its head. Unfortunately, Luther is dragged into the tunnels by a zombie.

Alice and the Redfields board the ''Arcadia'', discovering it functional but abandoned. Claire then remembers ''Arcadia'' is an Umbrella trap to get test subjects after her convoy escaped to Alaska.{{efn|as depicted in ''Resident Evil: Extinction''.}} They release the survivors, including K-Mart from Claire's group. Alice follows a trail of blood deeper into the ship, where she finds Wesker. The T-virus revived him, but it battles Wesker for control, something he believes fresh human DNA can pacify; the Umbrella staff fled when he began eating test subjects. Alice's DNA is superior to his since she retained control despite bonding with the virus at a cellular level. Wesker believes eating her will help him regain control of his body.

The Redfields fight Wesker while Alice battles Bennett, now working for Wesker. Wesker easily overpowers Chris and Claire, but Alice is able to defeat both Bennett and Wesker with help from K-Mart. They lock Bennett in the room to be devoured by Wesker when he revives. Wesker then escapes in an aircraft, activating a bomb on the ''Arcadia''; the plane explodes instead as Alice places the bomb there beforehand. Unbeknownst to them, Wesker parachutes away from the explosion, while Luther emerges from the sewers, battered but alive. Alice resolves to turn ''Arcadia'' into a real haven and broadcasts a new message for any other survivors. As Alice, Claire, and Chris watch over from ''Arcadia'', it is approached by a squadron of Umbrella aircraft.

During a mid-credits scene in one of the aircraft, Jill Valentine, who went missing after the destruction of Raccoon City,{{efn|as depicted in ''Resident Evil: Apocalypse''.}} is dictating the attack wearing the same mind control device used on Claire.

