Milo Boyd, a former New York Police Department detective is now a bounty hunter.  His ex-wife, Nicole Hurley, is an investigative reporter who was recently arrested for assaulting a police officer.

Nicole receives a tip on a story, an apparent suicide that may have been a murder, so she skips her bond hearing to meet her informant, causing the judge to revoke her bail and issue a warrant for her arrest. Just before Nicole arrives, her informant, Jimmy, is kidnapped.

Milo is ecstatic when Nicole's bail bondsman, Sid, offers him the job of bringing her to jail for a bounty of $5,000. Nicole's mother Kitty inadvertently helps him find her at a race track in New Jersey. He throws her into his trunk and drives back towards Manhattan. Nicole escapes briefly before he catches up with her.

They are being stalked: Milo by two thugs sent by his bookie Irene, because of his gambling debts, and Nicole by corrupt cop Earl Mahler, who is connected with the story she is investigating, and both by Nicole's lovestruck coworker Stewart, bent on rescuing her from Milo. Irene's thugs confuse Stewart for Milo and mistakenly kidnap him.

Earl tries to shoot Nicole as they are both driving along, but he misses both Milo and Nicole and then Earl crashes. He gets away by hijacking a passing car. Milo is not interested in Nicole's explanations until she tells him she's found evidence that implicates Bobby, their mutual friend and Milo's ex-partner on the force, indicating that he is involved with Earl. Milo decides to investigate with her.

Clues from Earl's car lead them to a country club, where they learn from a caddie that Earl owns a tattoo parlor in Queens, so they start to make their way there. A call from Bobby warns them to get off the road and lay low.

The nearest hotel is the bed and breakfast where they spent their honeymoon. Spending time together, they discover they still have feelings for each other and admit making mistakes. Later, coming out of the bathroom, Nicole overhears Milo telling Sid he may sleep with her, but he's still taking her to jail. When he's asleep, she handcuffs him to the bed and takes his car to go to the tattoo parlor. Milo steals a car to follow her. At the parlor, Nicole finds Jimmy and frees him before both are captured by Irene's thugs. 

They take Nicole with her when they visit a strip club, and Milo rescues her by causing a distraction. Then they hear Bobby is heading to the police's evidence warehouse, which is being relocated to a new building. Bobby confronts Earl, a former friend who has used Bobby's name to gain access to the warehouse and steal a large amount of narcotics and cash. Bobby tries to arrest him, but Earl shoots him. When Milo and Nicole enter the warehouse, Milo is ambushed by Earl, but Milo jumps Earl when Nicole comes at him from behind with a shotgun she has found amongst the evidence.

Bobby explains that Earl was using him, as well as the man who supposedly committed suicide, to gain access to the warehouse. There was no proof, so Bobby was waiting for Earl to make his move before arresting him. Milo emphasizes that Earl might have gotten away with it if Nicole hadn't picked up clues. He and Nicole appear to have reconciled, and they concede that sometimes their jobs have to come first. Nicole is surprised when Milo insists on still turning her in to the police so he can collect the reward.

On his way out of the precinct, Milo runs into a cop who insulted him earlier and punches him in the face. He is arrested and put in the cell adjoining Nicole's. He reminds her that it is their anniversary and they have to spend it together. Through the bars, they admit their love and embrace and kiss.

