John "Hannibal" Smith is held captive in Mexico by two corrupt Federal Police officers working for renegade General Javier Tuco. Hannibal escapes and sets out to rescue his friend Templeton "Face" Peck, who is also held captive at Tuco's ranch. Hannibal saves Face after enlisting former Ranger B.A. Baracus, driving to the rescue in B.A.'s modified GMC Vandura. Pursued by Tuco, they stop at a nearby Army hospital to recruit the services of a pilot Howling Mad Murdock. They flee in a medical helicopter and are being chased by Tuco in a dogfight. They lure Tuco's helicopter into American airspace where it is shot down by a fighter jet for trespassing, killing Tuco.

Eight years later in Iraq, Hannibal is contacted by CIA Special Activities Division operative Lynch, who assigns them on a black operation to recover U.S. Treasury plates and over $1 billion in cash slated to move out of Baghdad in an armored convoy. Hannibal's commanding officer, General Morrison, consents to the operation but Face's former girlfriend, Defense Criminal Investigative Service Capt. Charissa Sosa, tries to discourage the team from getting the plates. The mission is successful, but when the team returns to base, both the money and Morrison's vehicle are destroyed by Brock Pike and his men from the private security firm Black Forest. 

Without Morrison, the only proof that they were authorized to act, Hannibal, Face, Murdock, and B.A. are court-martialed, sentenced to ten years in separate supermax prisons, and dishonorably discharged. Because the plates were her responsibility, Sosa is demoted to lieutenant.

Six months later, Lynch visits Hannibal in prison and tells him that Pike may be trying to sell the plates with the help of an Arab backer. Hannibal, who has been tracking Pike on his own, makes a deal with Lynch: full reinstatement and clean records for his team in return for the plates. Lynch agrees and Hannibal escapes, breaking out Face, B.A., and Murdock in the process. The team hijacks a C-130, which is later destroyed by Reaper UCAVs, but not before the team parachutes away in an M8 light tank stashed aboard and make it to the ground safely. 

The team moves to reclaim the plates and kidnaps Pike's backer. It is revealed that the backer is actually General Morrison in disguise, who plotted with Lynch and Pike to steal the plates but teamed up with Pike to double-cross Lynch and fake his death. Lynch orders an airstrike to kill the team and Morrison, but the team manages to escape while Morrison is killed in the explosion.

Hannibal arranges to meet Sosa on board a container ship at the Port of Los Angeles, saying he will hand over "Morrison" and the plates. Face then calls Sosa and conspires on a different plan with her. It all unfolds according to plan until Pike, who is now working with Lynch, blows up the container ship with a rocket launcher and chases Face in an ensuing gunfight. B.A. confronts Pike before breaking his neck, killing him and saving Face's life. Hannibal leads Lynch into a container with Murdock, who, wearing a covered, bullet-proof helmet filled with ketchup, is portraying Morrison. Lynch shoots at Murdock's head, and believing that he has killed Morrison, is later tricked into admitting that he stole the plates and is subsequently caught and arrested by Sosa for his crimes.

CIA agents led by a separate "Lynch" come and claim custody of the original one. Despite their success and proving themselves innocent, the military still arrests the team for escaping from federal prison, which is a criminal offense. Sosa is reinstated to captain, but she promises to do all she can to set the team free and kisses Face as everybody is led into a prison van. In the van, Face opens his mouth, revealing a handcuff key given to him by Sosa through the kiss.

