Four years after his adventure in the center of the earth, 17-year-old Sean Anderson is arrested by the police for breaking into a satellite control center in hopes of enhancing a coded signal that could have been sent by his long-missing grandfather, Alexander Anderson. 

Wanting to bond with Sean, his new stepfather Hank Parsons helps decipher the code, which leads to three books: ''Treasure Island'', ''Gulliver's Travels'', and Jules Verne's ''Mysterious Island''. Using the books' individual maps, Hank uses a backlight to make them a single island, complete with the coordinates to its location. Hoping to prove to Sean that there is no mysterious island there, Hank convinces Sean's mother, Liz, to let him take Sean to where the coordinates point to.

In Palau, Hank reluctantly hires helicopter tourism guide Gabato and his daughter Kailani (on whom Sean develops an immediate crush) to fly to the coordinates, as they are the only ones willing to take them. The helicopter gets caught in a cyclone and they crash into the Pacific, waking up on the island.

Moving in land, they are shocked to discover miniature elephants (which belong to a prehistoric species, the Dwarf sicilian elephant) and giant butterflies, meaning the animal sizes are opposite. After coming across an egg clutch, Gabato accidentally wakes up a giant frilled lizard, which chases them throughout the jungle. 

They nearly get eaten, but are saved by Alexander. He takes them to a hut he built from the wreckage of the ship that brought him to the island. He has a working radio, but due to the positioning of the satellite, it will be two weeks before they can call out.

The next morning, Alexander leads the group to the lost city of Atlantis, which rises every 70 years and sinks again after a couple of days. Although Alexander assures them the island won't sink for many years, Hank discovers sea water coming from underground, meaning they only have days before the island sinks. Their only means of salvation seems to be the legendary ''Nautilus'', Captain Nemo's submarine. Kailani enters Nemo's crypt and finds his journal, which shows that ''Nautilus'' is in a cave at Poseidon's Cliffs.

To go there, they mount giant bees and fly over a high ridge. When giant bee-eater birds try to devour them, Sean saves Kailani's life, but dislocates his ankle. Hank and Alexander reset Sean's ankle, then the group has a bonding moment when Hank sings his rendition of "What a Wonderful World" to ease Sean's pain.

The next morning, the water rises greatly and Hank deduces that the island will sink in a matter of hours. Gabato is missing, having gone toward the island's volcano in search of gold. While Alexander and Kailani go after him, Sean and Hank head for Poseidon's Cliffs.

To reach ''Nautilus''{{'}} underwater cave, Sean and Hank create makeshift oxygen tanks and dive down fifty feet, but are nearly killed by a giant electric moray eel. The 140-year-old batteries have run down, so they engineer a way to start the submarine with the eel's electricity.

Kailani and Alexander find Gabato and convince him to escape with them instead of trying to take some volcano gold. As they near Poseidon's Cliffs, the volcano erupts. Sean and Hank arrive in ''Nautilus'' just in time to rescue the others from the water. Gabato pilots the submarine out of harm's way while Hank and Sean fire torpedoes into the path of falling debris. As they clear the dangers, Kailani kisses Sean for his bravery.

Six months later, Kailani and Gabato are well off, as he runs the most popular tourist attraction on Palau{{snd}}tours aboard the ''Nautilus''. Kailani visits Sean on his birthday. While the family celebrates, Alexander arrives with a book for Sean's birthday present{{snd}}Jules Verne's ''From the Earth to the Moon'', Alexander's suggestion for the next new adventure with the family. Liz protests, but Hank says, "Oh honey, it's only the moon. What could possibly go wrong?" The film ends with the camera panning to the moon.

