John Milton escapes from Hell after stealing Satan's gun, the Godkiller, in order to kill Jonah King, a Satanic cult-leader who murdered Milton's daughter and her husband and plans to ritually sacrifice Milton's infant granddaughter to unleash Hell on Earth.

After interrogating and killing some of King's followers in Colorado, Milton discovers that the ritual will take place in Stillwater, an abandoned Louisiana prison. On his way there, he stops by a diner, where he meets Piper Lee, a waitress. Milton sabotages Piper's 1969 Dodge Charger, offering to fix it in exchange for a ride.

Piper walks in on her boyfriend, Frank, cheating on her. Piper beats the woman and tosses her outside and assaults Frank, who knocks her unconscious. Milton comes to Piper's aid and "borrows" Frank's Dodge Charger, taking Piper with him to Stillwater. Satan's operative, The Accountant, arrives on Earth with the mission to retrieve Milton and the Godkiller. The Accountant interrogates Frank and discovers Milton's destination. After killing Frank, he poses as an FBI agent, tricking a pair of state troopers into helping him.

Stopping at a shady motel, Milton is having sex with a waitress from a nearby bar. King and his men attack and Milton violently dispatches them with many rounds of gunfire, leaving the naked and terrified waitress completely traumatized. The Accountant appears with the police and chases Milton and Piper, who by now are far ahead of them, hotly pursuing King in his RV. Milton uses the Godkiller to shoot at the Accountant, causing him to drive off a bridge. They follow King to a former church, find it filled with King's Satan-worshipers, and they are ambushed and captured by the cult. They kidnap Piper and shoot Milton in the eye, leaving him for dead. He awakens, kills King's cult, and pursues the RV in the Charger. Piper breaks free, fights King, and jumps through the RV's shattered window onto Milton's car hood. King disables the Charger by shooting its engine.

Milton and Piper meet Milton's friend, Webster, who gives them a 1971 red Chevrolet Chevelle SS. Piper discovers that Milton is undead and had to abandon his daughter in order to protect her, which allowed King to manipulate her into joining his cult. Webster reveals that he was a pallbearer at Milton’s funeral when he died 10 years earlier in a shootout. Piper also discovers that the Godkiller has the power to completely destroy a soul, preventing it from going to either Heaven or Hell. Meanwhile, one of King's surviving men tells the Accountant why Milton is chasing them.

After arming himself, Milton tells Piper and Webster to leave, but Piper says that she has never before had a worthy cause to fight for and is with him regardless of the consequences. With the help of the now-intrigued Accountant, they evade a sheriff's troopers and arrive at Stillwater. The Accountant captures Piper and forces Milton to surrender the Godkiller before he can battle King. He allows Milton to attempt to save his granddaughter, however, noting that Satan despises the sacrifice of innocents in his name.

While Milton slaughters King's men before they can sacrifice his grandchild, Piper escapes from The Accountant with the Godkiller. King eventually gets the upper hand on Milton and savagely beats him. Piper fires the Godkiller at King, but misses, knocking herself out. King is enraged when another follower refuses to sacrifice the infant. The Accountant attracts King's attention, allowing Milton to grab the Godkiller and obliterate King forever.

The Accountant retrieves the infant and allows Milton to say goodbye to his granddaughter. Milton gives her to Piper, who promises to always care for her. Webster arrives and looks on as Milton "dies". After both Piper and Webster have left, Milton makes good on his earlier promise to Webster and drinks a beer from  what remains of King's skull. He agrees to return to Hell, promising to escape again if his punishment remains too severe. The Accountant says that he looks forward to that escape. The Accountant manifests a black 1957 Chevrolet Bel Air and Milton drives them both back into Hell.

