At the behest of the Kazakh Ministry of Information, reporter Borat Sagdiyev leaves Kazakhstan for the "US and A", the "Greatest Country in the World", to make a documentary about American society and culture. He leaves behind his wife, Oksana; his companions are his producer, Azamat Bagatov and a pet hen.

In New York City, Borat sees an episode of ''Baywatch'' on TV and immediately falls in love with Pamela Anderson's character, C. J. Parker.  While interviewing and mocking a panel of feminists, he learns of the actress' name and her residence in California. Borat is then informed by telegram that Oksana has been killed by a bear. Delighted, he resolves to travel to California and make Anderson his new wife. Azamat insists that they drive because of his fear of flying which stems from the September 11 attacks, which he believes was "the work of the Jews". Borat takes driving lessons and buys a dilapidated ice-cream truck for the journey.

During the trip, Borat acquires a ''Baywatch'' booklet and continues gathering footage for his documentary. He meets gay pride parade participants, politicians Alan Keyes and Bob Barr, and African-American youths. Borat is also interviewed on a local television station and proceeds to disrupt the weather report. Visiting a rodeo, Borat excites the crowd with jingoistic remarks, but then sings a fictional Kazakhstani national anthem to the tune of "The Star-Spangled Banner", receiving a strong negative reaction.

In Atlanta, Borat finds a hotel but is kicked out when he offends the front desk worker by talking and dressing like the African-American youths he met earlier. Staying at a bed-and-breakfast, Borat and Azamat are stunned to learn their hosts are Jewish. The two escape after throwing money at two woodlice, believing they are their hosts transformed. Borat attempts to buy a handgun to defend himself, but is turned away because he is not an American citizen, so he buys a bear instead.

An etiquette coach suggests Borat attend a private dinner at an eating club in the South. During the dinner, he offends the other guests when he lets Luenell, an African-American prostitute, into the house and as a result, they are both kicked out. Borat befriends Luenell, who invites him into a relationship with her, but he tells her that he is in love with someone else.  Borat then visits an antique shop, in which he clumsily breaks various Confederate heritage items.

At a hotel, Borat sees Azamat masturbating over a picture of Pamela Anderson, and Borat flies into a rage as he takes the booklet and accidentally reveals his real motive for traveling to California. Azamat becomes livid at Borat's deception, and the situation escalates into a nude brawl which spills out into the hallway, a crowded elevator, and then into a packed convention ballroom.

Azamat abandons Borat, taking his passport, all of their money, and the bear. Borat's truck runs out of fuel, and he begins to hitchhike to California.  He is soon picked up by drunken fraternity brothers from the University of South Carolina. On learning the reason for his trip, they show him the ''Pam and Tommy'' sex tape which reveals that she is not a virgin. Despondent, Borat burns the ''Baywatch'' booklet and, by mistake, his return ticket to Kazakhstan.

Borat attends a United Pentecostal camp meeting, at which Republican U.S. Representative Chip Pickering and Mississippi Supreme Court Chief Justice James W. Smith, Jr. are present. He undergoes a religious conversion to Christianity and forgives Pamela. He accompanies church members on a bus to Los Angeles and soon finds Azamat dressed as Oliver Hardy. The two reconcile and Azamat tells Borat where to find Pamela Anderson. Borat finally comes face-to-face with Anderson at a book signing at a Virgin Megastore. After showing Anderson his "traditional marriage sack", Borat pursues her throughout the store in an attempt to abduct her, until security guards intervene.

Borat visits Luenell and they return to Kazakhstan together. They bring several American customs and traditions back to his village, including the apparent conversion of the people to Christianity (the Kazakh version of which includes crucifixion and torturing of Jews) and the introduction of computer-based technology, such as iPods, laptop computers and a high-definition television.

