Ten years after the events of the first film, Dante Hicks arrives at the Quick Stop convenience store for another day of work, only to find, upon opening the security shutters, that the store is on fire. Randal Graves, Dante's best friend, had left the coffee pot on after closing the night before. Because Quick Stop and the adjacent RST Video have been destroyed in the fire, Dante and Randal begin working at a Mooby's fast food restaurant along with devout Christian teenager Elias Grover and their manager Becky Scott.

A year later, Dante is planning to leave his minimum wage lifestyle and move to Florida with his wealthy but overbearing fiancée Emma Bunting, whose parents will provide them with a home and a car wash business to run as wedding gifts. Afraid of losing his best friend, Randal becomes resentful towards Dante and Emma's relationship. Jay and Silent Bob have followed Dante and Randal, and now loiter outside of Mooby's. Although they no longer use drugs (after being arrested for possession, sent to rehab, and supposedly becoming devout Born again Christians), the duo continue to sell them and perform their typical antics in the parking lot.

Dante tells Becky that he is worried about dancing at his wedding, so she takes him up to the restaurant's roof to teach him some moves. Dante soon releases his inhibitions and begins dancing to The Jackson 5's ''ABC''. When the song ends, Dante, caught up in the moment, confesses his love for Becky, and she reveals that she's pregnant as a result of a one-night stand they had at work a few weeks prior. Becky tells Dante not to tell anyone about the baby. However, he tells Randal but threatens to beat Randal up should he tell anyone. Becky finds out and, furious at Dante for telling Randal, drives off.

Randal encourages Dante to leave Mooby's in search of Becky, so he can set up a surprise going away party for him. Randal hires "Kinky Kelly and the Sexy Stud," a donkey show act, complete with a fog machine, for the party. When Dante returns, he mistakes the fog for fire and calls the fire department, but upon discovering that it's not a fire, proceeds to watch with Randal, Jay, Silent Bob, and a very drunk/stoned Elias. 

The group discovers that "Kinky Kelly" is, in fact, the donkey, while the man, whom Randal thought to be the pimp, is "The Sexy Stud". When Becky returns, she admits that she too loves Dante. As they kiss, Emma arrives with a cake she made for Dante. She throws her engagement ring at Becky, dumps the cake over Dante's head, knees him in the crotch, and storms off in tears.

The fire and police departments arrive and Dante, Randal, Elias, Jay, Silent Bob, and The Sexy Stud are arrested as a result of the show. In their jail cell, Dante gets into a heated argument with Randal, angry with him for ruining his life and expresses his eagerness to start a new life without him, while Randal becomes indignant and condemns Dante for his willingness to live his life under the standards of others and for abandoning their friendship, revealing how upset he is that Dante is moving away. The two then finally realize how much they care about their friendship.

Randal proposes that they buy the Quick Stop and re-open it themselves, although Dante says that neither have the money to do it. Jay and Silent Bob offer to lend them the money (from the royalty money they collected from the ''Bluntman and Chronic'' movie in ''Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back'') provided that they can hang out outside of the store anytime they want without the police being called. Randal accepts their offer, but Dante is uncertain, prompting Randal to emotionally confess his fear of losing Dante. Moved by Randal's confession, Dante agrees to the proposition. Shortly after, the group is released off-screen without being charged since (as the Sexy Stud had assured them) you can't be imprisoned for watching an inter-species sex act.

Soon afterwards, Dante, having embraced fatherhood, proposes to Becky at Mooby's, who happily accepts. After both the Quick Stop and RST Video are rebuilt, Dante and Randal hire Elias to work at RST Video.

In the very last scene, with the stores open, Dante tells Randal, both having finally taken control of their lives, "Can you feel it? Today is the first day of the rest of our lives." The color then evaporates from the film and the camera pulls back to reveal the milk maid from the first movie still going through all the gallons.

