For years, Zack Bradley has been working at the local "Super Club" as a box boy. He lives with his grandmother and spends his free time with co-workers Lon Neilson, Iqbal Raji, and Russell Porpis-Gunders.

Despite his slacker-like ways, Zack is kind-hearted, popular, and supportive. His rival co-worker and head cashier, Vince Downey, earns Employee of the Month for the 17th time in a row. Vince comes off as charming, but is egotistical and rude towards his co-workers, including his box boy Jorge Mecico, whom he berates constantly in spite of Jorge always showing him loyalty and admiration.

When new cashier Amy Renfro is hired, Zack and Vince fall for her and compete for her affection. Zack learns from Russell that she slept with the Employee of the Month at her last job, so he decides to win the title. Amy has dinner with Vince but is repulsed when he puts the move on her. Oblivious to how Amy feels, he thinks it went well and continues pursuing her. Zack steps up his act and begins going to work on time and working harder, giving Vince competition for the title.

Within a few days, with Vince still winning the daily star, Zack realizes getting Employee of the Month is not so easy. With Iqbal's encouragement, Zack finds his groove and, to Vince's horror, wins the star the next day. This gets him a date with Amy, which takes place entirely inside Super Club. When one of the cashiers suddenly passes away, Zach volunteers to take her place, which earns him another star and an official promotion to cashier. Zack and Amy continue to grow closer, as he reveals his past life running a start-up company where he lost all the money he borrowed from his grandmother to get it going, explaining why they live together and Zack took a low responsibility job.

A war of attrition begins, as Vince tries everything he can to derail Zack's string of stars, even breaking into his house one night to reset the clocks; the sabotage causes him to arrive a minute late the following day, but with Iqbal's help, Zack's attendance card indicates he arrived on time, causing the plan to fail. Zack retaliates by putting Vince's car up for sale for a cheap price, which is purchased by a customer. Vince concedes to give up his car in order to avoid getting a complaint. Jorge, who was promised Vince's car when Vince won the Employee of the Month prize car, severs their friendship as a result.

Zack takes Iqbal's shift on the day of a softball game against rival chain Maxi-Mart. However, he leaves to play in the game, and Iqbal is fired. Frustrated at Zack's new attitude, his friends tell him he is turning into Vince and feel his attempt at getting the title is a result of trying to have sex with Amy. She overhears and is disgusted at Zack for his true intentions, prompting her to reveal that she did sleep with the Employee of the Month at her previous location, but that she was already dating him and she broke up with him over his attitude, which was why she requested a transfer.

At month's end, Zack and Vince are tied. On the day of the tie-breaking competition, Zack quits, gets Iqbal his job back, and tells him he took responsibility for what happened, making a heartfelt apology to Lon, Iqbal, and Russell. Zack tells them he plans to win the competition, not for recognition or to make an impression, but for pride. Meanwhile, Vince and Jorge make amends.

When the store manager is about to announce Zack's resignation, Zack, Lon, Iqbal, and Russell show up saying Zack never filed the resignation papers. (Russell bribed the human resources manager with a Butterfinger.) Zack tries to reconcile with Amy, giving a heartfelt apology and telling her that no matter what, he is a better man thanks to her. Despite Vince's protests, the competition for the fastest checkout is held. The Employee of the Month Award will be granted to whoever finishes the task first.

Vince beats Zack only by a few seconds but, during the award ceremony, Semi, the security guard, brings a surveillance video of the competition that shows Vince throwing store products behind his back and onto the conveyor belt without scanning them. The store's assistant manager gets the receipts for the scanned items in the competition, and Vince's is not only way shorter in length, but the total cost is also less than it should be. Semi adds that videos show that Vince has been failing to ring up items all year, which has cost the store thousands of dollars. Vince is fired and Zack ends up winning the competition and rekindling his relationship with Amy.

Six weeks after being fired from Super Club, Vince is on probation, working at Maxi-Mart. Jorge now treats Vince the same as he treated him. However, while they are both sitting in Jorge's new car, when Vince asks for a ride to the bus stop, Jorge agrees. He agrees to drive Vince to the bus stop, but he deliberately moves outside the range of Vince's court-ordered ankle monitor, causing the device to shock him.

