Ashley Albright works at Braden & Co. Public Relations and has an extremely fortunate life, experiencing recurring strokes of good fortune since childhood. In contrast, Jake Hardin experiences bad luck on a daily basis.

Jake is the unpaid US manager of the British band McFly. For weeks, he tries to get their demo CD to record label owner Damon Philips, hoping to get them discovered and become a music producer.

Jake sneaks into a masquerade ball put on by Ashley where he hopes to meet Phillips. During the ball, a fortune teller tells Ashley her luck will change. Failing to get Phillips' attention, Jake asks her to dance. They kiss, switching their luck in the process.

Outside, Jake saves Phillips from being hit by a car. To repay him for this, he takes the McFly demo and invites the band to his studio. Meanwhile, Ashley and her boss Peggy are arrested because the neighbor she invited to be Peggy's date is a prostitute. She is fired by Peggy and spends a night in jail.

The next day, Ashley learns her apartment is condemned due to flooding and mold. Staying with her friends Dana and Maggie she experiences more bad luck. Ashley tracks down the fortune teller, who suggests someone needed her luck more. She then realizes the stranger she kissed must have her luck.

Phillips is impressed with McFly and signs them. Ashley tracks down every male dancer hired to work the ball, kissing them all. After this fails to restore her luck, hungry and overwhelmed, Ashley has a public breakdown at a diner where Jake is. Not recognizing her, he sympathizes with her frustration at constant bad luck, offering to find her a job. Ashley takes his former job at the bowling alley, and they become friends. When Jake is worried McFly doesn't have enough material for an upcoming gig at the Hard Rock Cafe, she introduces him to singer/songwriter Maggie. Impressed, he decides to use her song.

During a recording session, Ashley overhears Jake say he's been lucky ever since the masquerade ball. Realizing he was the masked dancer, she kisses him and leaves, finding her luck is back. Ashley runs into Peggy, who is now engaged to Antonio and offers to rehire her as the Vice President of Braden & Co. if she helps with a meeting that very night. Ashley then learns Maggie's song will no longer be performed at the concert.

Looking at a mirror she broke earlier, Ashley reflects on the cost of her good luck. Deciding to forego Peggy's rehiring offer, she goes to the concert where Jake and the band are having bad luck and may have to cancel the concert. Ashley kisses Jake and circumstances change, leading to a successful concert where Maggie's song is performed. Ashley realizes she's in love with Jake but doesn't wish to give him bad luck again. She decides to leave and stay with her parents for a while.

Jake finds Ashley at Grand Central, realizing she is the woman from the ball. Since he used good luck to help others, she argues she doesn't want to take it away. Jake points out she experienced good things even with bad luck and says he is willing to experience bad luck again if they are together. They kiss, switching their good and bad luck back and forth. 

Katy arrives and they simultaneously kiss her on each cheek, causing another luck transfer. She then wins a $25 lottery ticket. Jake and Ashley walk hand-in-hand, wondering if they will get used to living without luck and debating karma. Outside a construction crew accidentally break a pipe and water rains down on the two just as the movie ends.

