Bob Munro, a successful company executive at the large soda company Pure Vibe in Los Angeles, struggles with the whims of his self-absorbed boss Todd Mallory. His family — his materialistic wife Jamie and their pubescent children, the sharp-tongued Cassie and the self-confident Carl — are also demanding, and he had promised them a vacation in Hawaii. Todd seeks to acquire the Alpine Soda company in Boulder, Colorado and threatens to fire Bob if he does not promote the takeover there as revenge for Cassie’s friend hurling a jug of slime on Todd at a company luncheon for him putting unhealthy sodas in schools, forcing the Munros to cancel their vacation. Bob, concealing the real reason for not going to Hawaii, rents an RV and tells his family they are traveling to the Rockies; Bob plans to make a detour in Colorado to secretly attend the meeting in Boulder.

The trip is marked by numerous mishaps. Bob's inexperience in handling the large vehicle results in him colliding with various obstacles and damaging the parking brake. During a stopover in Nevada, to the amusement of other campers, Bob must fix an unsavory clog in the toilet tank. Some time later, the family fumigates the RV with stink bombs to drive out three intrusive raccoons. During the trip, the Munros have several encounters with the Gornickes, a good-natured but exhausting family who live in their own RV.

As they approach Colorado, the Munros begin to reconnect as a family and enjoy the beauty of their surroundings. Nearing Boulder, Bob fakes an upset stomach and sends the rest of the family on a hike before meeting with the Alpine Soda owners. The meeting is promising for Bob and Todd, but on the way back Bob gets stuck in a traffic jam, forcing him to take the RV through a treacherous 4 wheel drive trail. With considerable difficulty and a badly battered vehicle, Bob returns to his unsuspecting family.

Todd calls Bob and demands that he return the next day to repeat the presentation to the entire Alpine Soda staff. However, the RV's parking brake fails again and sends it rolling into a mountain lake. Through a careless remark by Bob, the family surmises his secrecy and reproaches him. Bob justifies himself by fearing for his job and the loss of their high standard of living, and he makes his way to the meeting alone. The Gornickes appear and pick up the Munros, with patriarch Travis saying he will take the Munros to "where [they] need to be". Along the way, the families bond and Bob catches up to them, reconciling with his family and the Gornickes.

Travis then reveals that he took the Munros to Alpine Soda headquarters, leading Bob to step in front of the workforce and pitch the takeover to them. Following an epiphany, however, he dissuades them and encourages their independence, aware that Todd would ruin the brand. In retaliation, Todd fires Bob on the spot, but Bob tells him that he quits anyway. The Munros, on their way home in their sodden and battered RV, are stopped by a police officer on behalf of the Alpine Soda owners, who offer Bob a job in overseeing their company's expansion. The RV's parking brake fails once more, flattening both the police car and the company owners' car.

During the credits, the Munros and the Gornickes sing "Route 66" together.

