Stéphane Miroux (Gael García Bernal), is a shy young man whose vivid dreams often interfere with his waking life. After the death of his divorced father in Mexico, Stéphane moves to Paris to live closer to his mother Christine. He moves into his childhood home and starts a new job his mother has found for him in a calendar printing company. 

Stéphane had been told it was a creative job and shows his new colleagues his drawings, a collection of twelve illustrations depicting unique disasters. He calls his collection "disasterology". But nobody at his new job appreciates his talents – the job is no more than typesetting work, leaving him frustrated, as revealed in his dreams.

While leaving his apartment to go to work one day, the new neighbour Stéphanie (Charlotte Gainsbourg) invites him into her apartment; he soon realizes that she is creative and artistic. They plan a project together, a short animated film based around a boat Stéphanie was making.

As the story begins to unfold, surrealistic and naturalistic elements begin to overlap within Stéphane's reality, and the viewer is often uncertain of which portions constitute reality and which are dreams. One dream sequence, in which Stéphane dreams his hands become absurdly giant, was inspired by a recurring nightmare director Michel Gondry had as a child. As the line between dream and reality gradually becomes more blurred, Stéphane becomes enamoured with Stéphanie, and he shares his inventions with her, such as the 'one-second time machine'. Stéphane's dreams begin to encroach on his waking life, making him unsure of reality and whether Stéphanie's feelings for him are real.

Stéphanie's toy horse is named Golden The Pony Boy, a reference to ''The Outsiders'', the meaning poignantly hinting at Stèphane's regression and childlike behaviour around Stéphanie, which could stem from the loss of his father. He implants a mechanism inside Golden the Pony Boy that will make it gallop. He later receives a call from Stéphanie thanking him; she reveals the pony was named after him.

To Stéphane's surprise, the calendar manufacturer accepts his "disasterology" idea and the company has a party in his honor, but he begins drinking excessively after he witnesses Stéphanie dancing with another man. The next day, the two have a confrontation in their hallway when Stéphane announces that he does not want to be Stéphanie's friend any longer.
Stéphanie offers to discuss their issues on a date, but on his way there Stéphane has a vision that she is not there. He runs to her apartment and bangs on her door, when in actuality, she is waiting for him at the café. Stéphanie returns home, while Stéphane decides to move back to Mexico.

Before leaving, Stéphane's mother insists that he says a formal goodbye to his next-door neighbor, Stéphanie. In his attempt to do so, he becomes crass, making offensive jokes. As his antagonistic behaviour pushes her, Stéphanie asks Stéphane to leave but he climbs into her bed, noticing two items on her bedside: his one-second time machine, and the finished boat they planned to use in their animated film. The film closes with Stéphane and Stéphanie riding Golden the Pony Boy across a field before sailing off into the sea in her boat.<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://exploringyourmind.com/the-science-of-sleep-the-film/|title=The Science of Sleep - the Film|date=28 January 2020}}</ref>

