Gus Matthews, Richie Goodman, and Clark Reedy are adult "nerds" who spent their childhoods longing to play baseball, but never got the chance. When a nerdy, chubby, unathletic boy named Nelson Carmichael and his friends are bullied and kicked off a baseball diamond by a local little league team, Gus and Clark chase the bullies away. When Gus and Clark go with Richie to the field to play a game, the bullies return and demand that they leave. Gus challenges the bullies to play them for the field. Despite Richie and Clark's horrible ballplaying, the three win the game due to Gus' surprising aptitude. The three soon befriend Nelson's billionaire father Mel at Pizza Hut, while having an encounter with Richie and Clark's childhood bully Jerry, though Gus stands up to Jerry when he picks on Richie and Clark. Later, a man named Brad, another one of Clark and Richie's childhood bullies, challenges them to another game, but the three friends win again.

Later, Mel invites the trio over to his house, and tells them about his plan to hold a round-robin with all the little league teams in the state, plus their team. The winners will be given access to a new multimillion-dollar baseball park. The three name themselves the Benchwarmers and join the tournament. The Benchwarmers win every single game, with Clark and Richie's abilities gradually improving, and the team becomes popular among many nerds, children with poor athletic abilities, and the general public. As the tournament goes on, Jerry and his fellow little league coaches Brad, Karl, and Wayne start meeting together to think of plans to defeat the Benchwarmers, and Richie's brother Howie, who suffers from agoraphobia and has not left the house for months, eventually joins the team, while Gus' wife, Liz, becomes frustrated that Gus keeps putting off her ovulating schedule since she wants to start a family. 

At the semi-final game, the competing team's coach Wayne is down to the Benchwarmers by several runs. Desperate, he seeks the help of a 30-year-old Dominican professional baseball player named Carlos to join his team to get back into the game. Despite Carlos clearly being an adult and having a falsified birth certificate that was written in green crayon, Wayne bribes the home plate umpire to successfully get Carlos onto his team. The impact is immediate as Carlos's superb pitching and hitting get Wayne's team back in the game. However, the Benchwarmers quickly realize that Carlos has a major drinking problem, and they give him as much alcohol as possible throughout the rest of the game. After a bunt from Gus, the Benchwarmers run into their first instance of loading the bases, leading to Howie's first at-bat due to being the only Benchwarmer on-deck. Howie is hit by a pitch due to Carlos being intoxicated, which drives in the game-winning run for the Benchwarmers.

After that victory, Brad and Karl find evidence during a poker game that Gus was a bully himself as a child from their poker buddy Steven, known for using name calling over physical force and had bullied one boy named Marcus so intensely that he had to be sent to a mental institution. Seizing this opportunity, Jerry and Steven expose Gus' secret to the public with help from Steven's old principal, shaming Gus into resigning from the team. Liz finds out about his involvement and asks if that was why he kept postponing their attempt to start a family; Gus expresses worry that his kids would suffer bullying growing up, and this would be a form of karma coming back to him. Liz then encourages him to go apologize to Marcus, and Gus later sincerely apologizes to him just before the final game. On the day of the big game against Jerry's baseball team at Mel's newly-built stadium, Marcus forgives Gus in front of everyone, and Gus re-joins the team, announcing that Marcus is the Benchwarmers' new third-base coach. 

In the final game, Gus, Clark, and Richie let a team consisting of Nelson and other non-athletic children play, to give them a chance to compete. In the final inning, the Benchwarmers are losing, but Jerry's team sees that the Benchwarmers are having fun playing the game anyway. Seeing how abusive and uncaring Jerry is and realizing the true spirit of the game, they decide to let Nelson score a run with one player, saying that Jerry is "the loser". The Benchwarmers storm the field, celebrating the fact that they were not shut out. An outraged Jerry is then humiliated when he is left hanging by his underwear on a fence after getting a wedgie by some of the players.

The entire Benchwarmers team, along with the kids from Jerry's team, Marcus, and even Carlos and Wayne, celebrate at Pizza Hut. Richie and Clark get girlfriends, Howie informs Wayne that he's overcome his agoraphobia (though is still afraid of the moon), and Gus announces that he is going to become a father.

