Molly Thompson and Carl Peterson are preparing for their wedding day in Hawaii, until Carl's friend Neil interrupts to say that best man Randolph Dupree is missing. They drive off together to pick up Dupree, who appeared to have hitched a ride with a light plane after landing on the wrong island. A day before the wedding, Molly's father, Bob Thompson, who is also CEO of the company that Carl works for, makes a toast with rude jokes about Carl, foreshadowing a conflict between the two. Later, at a pre-celebration at a bar, Carl neglects Dupree to be with Molly. Carl and Dupree later make up on the beach, with Dupree apologizing for laughing at Bob's jokes. Carl and Molly get married. When Carl returns to work, he is surprised to find that Bob has promoted him to be in charge of a design he proposed, though it had been altered somewhat.

Bob makes absurd requests that proceed to get worse, starting with his drastic reimagining of Carl's new architecture project and that Carl get a vasectomy to prevent any future children with Molly. Before returning home to celebrate his promotion with Molly, Carl stops by the bar, where he finds Neil and Dupree. After Neil leaves, Dupree reveals that he has financial problems, such as being evicted from his home and losing his job and car. Carl and Molly take Dupree into their home, though they are clearly frustrated because he is a disruptive, messy slob. Molly sets up Dupree with a woman at her work, a primary school, who is a Mormon librarian. Dupree agrees, though Molly is shocked to find them having sex when she comes home from dinner. Romantic candles that Dupree had set up burn down the front of the living room, and Dupree is kicked out.

Meanwhile, Carl is continually stressed out from work, though he and Molly find time to go out for dinner. On the way back, they find Dupree sitting on a bench in heavy rain with his belongings. Dupree reveals that the librarian had just dumped him. Feeling pity, Molly insists to a reluctant Carl that they take him back in. Dupree apologizes for being disruptive and agrees to mend his ways. The next day, Dupree makes amends, refurbishing the living room and doing Carl's thank you letters for their wedding gifts, as well as making friends with kids from the block. Dupree cooks a large dinner for Molly and Carl, though Carl is late again, so Molly and Dupree start without him. When Carl finally shows up, he is a little jealous that the pair were having dinner together and have become friends, and Carl and Molly have a fight. Carl kicks Dupree out, suspecting an affair, which shocks Dupree. The following night, Bob comes over for dinner. Dupree attempts to sneak back into their home to get some of his belongings but falls off the roof. He is found outside and is invited in for dinner, much to Carl's dismay.

After Bob takes a liking to Dupree and asks him to go fishing with him, it enrages Carl because - even though he doesn't like fishing - it's Bob's way of approving someone. Carl's fury boils over as he then imagines Dupree hanging out with Bob and engaging in sex with Molly, causing Carl to jump across the table and attempt to strangle Dupree. Bob hits Carl over the head with a candlestick shortly after, and Molly kicks Carl out of the house. After returning from the hospital with a neck brace, Dupree and Molly confront Bob about what he really thinks of Carl, and his evasive answers reveal his dislike of him. The next morning, Dupree gets all the local kids to search for Carl. Dupree eventually finds Carl in the bar and convinces him to chase after Molly. Dupree helps Carl break into Bob's office and confront him while Dupree himself distracts and evades a Samoan guard, Paco. Carl and Bob finally reach an understanding, and Bob expresses his regret over the way he treated him. Dupree and Carl return to the house, where Carl apologizes to Molly and they agree to work it all out. Glad that he mended his best friend's marriage, Dupree celebrates by leaping into the air with joy until he falls to the ground.

Dupree uses his experiences with Carl and Molly to publish a successful self-help book titled ''7 Different Kinds of Smoke: Living, Loving, and Finding your Inner "-ness"'' and becomes a motivational speaker, with Paco as his assistant. In a post-credits scene, Dupree's hero Lance Armstrong is seen reading Dupree's book and repeating "Lanceness" in various pronunciations.

