On a highway outside of the quiet mining town of Prosperity, Arizona, a truck driver carrying a load of chemicals swerves to avoid a rabbit, causing a barrel of toxic waste to land in a pond. Crickets that feed from the pond are collected by an exotic spider farmer named Joshua Taft.

One week later, he shows Mike Parker, a local boy, his collection, including an enormous female orb-weaver spider from Brazil named Consuela. After Mike leaves, Joshua is bitten by an escaped tarantula and accidentally knocks down the spider cages. Joshua is killed by the spiders, alongside his pet parrot. After devouring him, the spiders grow to even larger proportions due to the toxins of the crickets Joshua fed them.

After another week, Chris McCormick, whose father owned the mines before he died ten years ago, shows up and stands against Wade, the mayor of Prosperity, about his proposition to sell the mine, as he believes that his father had discovered a gold vein in the mine. Chris also sparks a romance with Sam Parker, the town sheriff and Mike's mother.

Meanwhile, Wade is holding a town meeting in the mall about whether they should sell the mines and relocate. Wade later on insults Chris's father for being delusional for thinking that gold is in the mine, only to be punched by Chris. Mike sneaks out on foot and finds Joshua and the spiders missing, the farm covered in webbing, and the dead body of Joshua. Although he sees an enormous spider shadow in the mines and tells Chris that the spiders have grown to enormous sizes based on a giant spider leg he found at the mine entrance, Chris does not believe him.

Seeing as the entire town is connected in some way to the mines, spiders show up in many different places. Harlan Griffiths, an eccentric extraterrestrial enthusiast, is broadcasting his theory that various missing pets around town have been abducted by aliens. A farmer finds his ostriches missing, and trapdoor spiders were found to be preying on them. Ashley, Sam's daughter and Mike's older sister, breaks up with her boyfriend Bret, before he and his motorcyclist friends are chased by jumping spiders. Bret, the only survivor, accidentally cuts off the telephone line and ends up stuck in the mine in the process. While traversing the mines, he finds Consuela feeding on victims who were trapped in spider webbing.

Chris finds out that his aunt Gladys and her dog are abducted by a male orb weaver in their basement. Sam is convinced Chris and Mike are delusional, but realizes they were right all along after witnessing a giant male orb weaver attempting to abduct Ashley and Chris. Sam kills the spider with a shotgun and saves them both before contacting Pete to tell him to bring all guns in the police station's possession to the mall. The group, consisting of Ashley, Chris, Sam, and Mike, escape to Harlan's trailer, knowing he has a radio station in his trailer.

As Sam broadcasts the threat over the radio, a giant tarantula, the "tank" of the horde, assaults the trailer, but they manage to escape. As the town is besieged by vicious spider hordes, many people are eaten. Sam tells everybody to evacuate to the mall and barricade themselves, while Wade flees into the mines and locks the gate before the attack, forcing the rest to defend themselves from the arachnids. Harlan and Chris climb onto the roof and ascend the radio mast and try to get a signal to call the army as they are being attacked by the spiders, but are believed to be pranksters by a 911 receiver. Harlan jumps from the roof after the tarantula breaks open the gates and lets the spiders enter the mall, and lands in some bushes, where he meets Pete.

While the townsfolk are in the basement, Bret arrives on a forklift that brings down the locked gate, and they all head through the mines straight to the front entrance, discovering the methane-filled tunnels. After freeing Wade, Chris goes to look for Gladys in the mines and finds her and the gold vein his father had claimed to have discovered. Filled with joy to realize that his father is not delusional like Wade or many people claim, this moment of celebration is cut short, and they are confronted by the gigantic Consuela. Using perfume to distract the spider and escaping on Bret's motorcycle, Chris then blows up the mines using Gladys's smoking addiction and the high concentrations of methane gas, blowing up the mall and destroying Consuela and her spider army before the police arrive. Wade is distraught at the destruction of the mall and hopes that the insurance will cover the damages.

As the story ends, Harlan concludes his radio report that the town has decided to cover up the whole incident, but let Harlan continue broadcasting the incident. Harlan states that Chris reopened the mine, informing that another story was coming by giving a toothy smile, revealing several golden teeth.

