The film is set in a quasi-Victorian history. The world contains two major powers: the West, ruled by the Queen, and the East. The Queen manipulates events worldwide using operatives called the Queen's Watchdogs. Earl Kiyohara Genpou (replacing Ciel Phantomhive from the original manga and anime), is a Queen's Watchdog in an unnamed Eastern metropolis. To the world, she presents herself as male in order to keep a hold on the Genpou family's Funtom Toy Company fortune, as it is only passed down to males of the family, and Kiyohara is now an orphan. Her right-hand man is Sebastian Michaelis, a demon who masquerades as her butler, to whom she sold her soul in order to take revenge against her family's massacre. Also in her household are clumsy maid Rin and house steward Tanaka. 

Currently, Kiyohara is investigating a case in which powerful citizens are found mummified and desiccated. The latest victim is the Queen's ambassador Anthony Campelle. At the Eastern Ministry for State Security, a senior official tells policeman Tokizawa that if a Queen's Watchdog exists, they are a threat to the nation and should be disposed of. Tokizawa learns that the Genpous were once called the Phantomhives from England before they moved to Japan and change their family name to Genpou.

Clues lead Kiyohara and Sebastian to an underground club of the wealthy. The Earl infiltrates the club with Rin but they are captured by Kujo, CEO of Epsilon Pharmaceuticals. Kujo talks with a hooded figure about Necrosis, a poisonous new drug. Party guests inhale Necrosis; a bound Kiyohara watches as they begin bleeding from their faces and desiccation sets in. Seeing that the drug is ready, the hooded figure kills Kujo and leaves. Sebastian rescues the Earl and Rin.

It is revealed that Kiyohara's aunt is the hooded figure who killed Kujo, had a hand in killing the Earl's parents, and is the bio-terrorist who will kill innocent people with a Necrosis bomb. She is doing it for eternal youth and as revenge against the Earl's father choosing her sister (the Earl's mother) over her. Sebastian tricks her aunt into succumbing to Necrosis.

The Earl disarms the bomb and Sebastian treats her Necrosis exposure with the antidote. Tokizawa receives a box; in it are the remaining Necrosis capsules and a note that the terrorist danger has been dispelled and the Genpou family are not his enemies. Meanwhile, the senior official from the Eastern Ministry for State Security is notified that the Earl is alive and well; it is revealed that the senior official is a member of the crime syndicate that killed the Earl's parents. 

Sebastian puts the Earl to bed. She orders him to never betray her and asks him to stay with her until she falls asleep. As he does so, she sees in him the vision of her father, and smiles for the first time.

