In medieval France, Balian, a blacksmith who is haunted by his wife's recent suicide after the death of their unborn child, meets a group of Crusaders who visit his village. Their leader introduces himself as Balian's father, Baron Godfrey, and asks him to return with him to the Holy Land, but Balian declines. Later that night, Balian kills his half brother, the town priest, after discovering that he ordered Balian's wife's body beheaded before burial. The next day, Balian joins his father's group, hoping to gain salvation for himself and his wife in Jerusalem. They are soon confronted by soldiers sent to arrest Balian during which many are killed and Godfrey is struck by an arrow. Reaching Messina, they have a contentious encounter with Guy de Lusignan, a prospective future king of Jerusalem who intends to break the fragile alliance between the Crusader states and Sultan Saladin with help from the brutal anti-Muslim Templar Knights. A night before the departure, Godfrey knights Balian and orders him to protect the helpless before succumbing to his arrow wound.

Balian sails for the Holy Land but his ship runs aground in a storm, leaving him the lone survivor. As he makes his way to Jerusalem on foot, Balian fights a Muslim cavalier over a horse he found. Balian slays the cavalier but spares his servant, who guides him to Jerusalem. Arriving in the city, Balian frees the servant who tells him that his mercy will earn him the respect of the Saracens. Balian quickly becomes acquainted with Jerusalem's political arena: the leper King Baldwin IV, Tiberias the Marshal of Jerusalem, and the King's sister Princess Sibylla, Guy's wife and mother to a boy from an earlier marriage. Balian then travels to his inherited estate at Ibelin and, using his knowledge in engineering, he helps the struggling residents irrigate the land. Sibylla visits him and they become lovers.

Meanwhile, Guy and his ally, the cruel Raynald of Châtillon, attack many Saracen caravans, provoking Saladin to march on Raynald's castle in retaliation. At the king's request, Balian defends the castle and the nearby villagers, despite being outnumbered. After a fierce battle that ends with the Crusaders defeated, Balian encounters the servant he freed, learning that he is actually Saladin's chancellor Imad ad-Din. Imad ad-Din releases Balian in repayment for his earlier mercy. Saladin and Baldwin later arrive with their armies and they negotiate a truce. After punishing Raynald and Guy, a weakened Baldwin asks Balian to marry Sibylla and take control of the army, but Balian refuses. Baldwin eventually dies and is succeeded by Sibylla's son. As regent, Sibylla continues to maintain peace with Saladin. Not long after, Sibylla learns that her son is developing leprosy like his late uncle, to her horror, and so she tearfully poisons him while he sleeps in her arms. Sibylla then hands the crown to Guy.

As king, Guy declares war on the Saracens, attempts to assassinate Balian who barely survives, and releases Raynald who murders Saladin's sister. Guy marches to war despite Balian's advice to remain near Jerusalem's water sources. As a result, the Saracens overwhelm the exhausted Crusaders in the ensuing desert battle. In the aftermath, Saladin takes Guy captive, executes Raynald, and marches on Jerusalem. Tiberias leaves for Cyprus while Balian stays to protect the people. After a devastating three-day siege, a frustrated Saladin parleys with Balian who reaffirms he will destroy Jerusalem if Saladin does not accept his terms of surrender. Saladin agrees to allow the Christians to leave safely, and then he and Balian ponder if it would be better if the city were destroyed, leaving nothing left to fight over. The Christians leave Jerusalem while Balian encounters a humiliated Guy, whom he defeats in a sword fight and spares him. Balian later finds Sibylla, who has renounced her claim as queen, and they return to France. 

A few years later, English knights en route to the Holy Land, visit Balian, now the famed defender of Jerusalem, in his village. Balian refuses the English king's offer to join his army, stating that he is merely a blacksmith. Later on, Balian passes by his wife's grave as he rides with Sibylla towards the unknown. An epilogue notes that "nearly a thousand years later, peace in the Kingdom of Heaven still remains elusive".

