Jennifer Taylor (Amanda Bynes) is in love with Jason Masters (Chris Carmack), a world-famous rock star, but her efforts to meet him are always thwarted by her nemesis, Alexis (Jamie-Lynn Sigler). Hoping to get another chance, Jennifer takes a job at Masters' favorite Caribbean resort, joined by her best friend Ryan (Jonathan Bennett). Jennifer sneaks aboard a party vessel Jason is on, and when Jason is washed overboard, Jennifer jumps in to save him. Though the pair find themselves marooned in a secluded cove of a seemingly-deserted island, Jennifer soon discovers that they have landed a short distance from the resort. She lets him believe they are stranded so she can make him fall in love with her.

Jennifer gets help from Ryan, who drives out to her location to provide her with supplies. When Alexis discovers Jennifer's plan by following Ryan secretly, she also pretends to be marooned with them. While Ryan has been helping, he has also decided to act on his long-standing love for Jennifer, seeking advice on asking her out. He completely transforms himself, yet when she sees him, all she talks about is Jason. Ryan confesses he can't stop thinking about her and kisses her, but when Jennifer protests that they are friends he tells her that he's going home, and drives off. Jennifer feels bad and after learning that the coast guard has called off the search for them and seeing mourning fans around the world, she tells Jason the truth about not being stranded. He gets upset at both Jennifer and Alexis, promises to sue them both, and leaves them behind as he hitches a ride back to the resort.

When Ryan hears that a storm is going to hit the side of the island where Jennifer is he drives out to save her. As the storm builds, Jennifer gets stuck in the car Ryan had abandoned to look for her, when Ryan returns just in time to save her as the car is about to slide over a muddy embankment. When he takes Jennifer into a cave and lights a fire to keep her warm, she realizes that he is the one that cares for her the most. After the storm passes, Jenny and Ryan return to the resort, where Jason and his manager tell Jennifer that they need her help to maintain the 'stranded' story at a press conference. Ryan proclaims his love for Jennifer before he is thrown out the door by Jason's bodyguard.

At the press conference, Jennifer tells everyone that her boyfriend is Ryan and that Alexis is Jason's fiancee, then walks off with Ryan. As the end-credits roll, Jason is on stage in Winnipeg, unhappily dedicating a song to his wife, Alexis, who is standing at his side.

