William Burke and William Hare, immigrants from Ulster, attempt to sell cheese mould as a patent medicine. When their fraud is discovered, they flee to an inn owned by Hare's wife, Lucky. One of her lodgers has died, and she wants Burke and Hare to remove the body. On the way, they stop for a drink and Hare hears from Fergus, a local henchman of villain Danny McTavish, that Dr Knox pays for cadavers, especially now demand has gone up. Burke and Hare decide to sell the corpse to Knox. They are forced to break the corpse's spine to fit it into a barrel in order to smuggle it through the city. Burke and Hare present the now-mangled corpse to Knox. After some negotiation, Knox agrees to pay them a good sum of money for each corpse they bring him for dissection.

Burke and Hare try grave-digging to procure more cadavers. They accidentally dig up a long-dead body and are then caught by the militia, who chase them out of the cemetery, shooting Burke in the rear end in the pursuit. Back at the inn, they find Lucky drunk and barely conscious. Lucky says she is drinking because Joseph, another lodger at the inn, is near death. Not willing to wait for the outcome, Burke and Hare suffocate Joseph and take the body to Knox. Flush with money, Burke and Hare dress up for a night in a posher pub. There they meet a young former prostitute, Ginny Hawkins, who performs an excerpt from ''Macbeth'' to the indifferent patrons. Burke is instantly taken with Ginny.

Hare comes home to find Lucky in good spirits and waiting with a home-cooked meal. He is suspicious, then scared when Lucky tells him she knows what he and Burke have been up to. Surprisingly, she thinks it a good idea and makes Hare give her a pound per corpse as a tax between man and wife.

Burke is kidnapped and bundled into a carriage by McTavish and Fergus, who have already captured Hare. McTavish threatens to kill them unless they give him half the money from Knox. Forced to agree, they are then thrown from the carriage. As they trek back to the inn, they plan a string of murders to make up their losses to McTavish.

The people of Edinburgh becomes suspicious of all the deaths in the area, as does police captain Tom McLintock of the militia. Missing posters of the dead are put up and Burke begins to panic. Hare says they have finished the murders and will go into the funeral parlour business.

McTavish kidnaps Hare again and attempts to extort the remainder of the money. Shortly afterward, McTavish appears as Knox's next dissection cadaver, where McLintock recognises his body. He discovers Knox's collection of anatomical photographs, recognising many of the photos as people who were reported missing. Knox confesses his arrangement with Burke and Hare. McLintock arrests Burke and Ginny, and Hare and Lucky, while both couples are having sex.

In prison, Burke is repentant, but Hare tells him not to confess or all of them, including the women, will be hanged. Meanwhile, the Solicitor General and the Lord Provost want to keep the scandal out of the papers, as the news would ruin the reputation of Edinburgh's medical schools and the money they generate. They bribe McLintock into a deal by making him a colonel. Knox's anatomical photographs are destroyed.

McLintock tells the prisoners that if any one of them confesses to the murders, the others will go free. Burke agrees to confess if he and Ginny can finish what they were doing when McLintock apprehended them.

Just before Burke's hanging, Angus asks Burke for his final words. Seeing Ginny in the crowd, Burke says that he did it for love.

Onscreen text over the credits describes the fates of all the characters in the story, concluding with an image of the actual skeleton of William Burke at the Anatomical Museum of the University of Edinburgh Medical School.<ref>{{cite web |url=http://www.ed.ac.uk/biomedical-sciences/anatomy/overview/exhibits |title=Exhibits |website=University of Edinburgh Medical School |access-date=26 August 2016 |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20160911123438/http://www.ed.ac.uk/biomedical-sciences/anatomy/overview/exhibits |archive-date=11 September 2016 |url-status=dead }}</ref>

