Tim Conrad finds a way to get wealthy businessman Martin Mueller as a client. Impressed by Tim's ingenuity, his boss Lance Fender says he is a candidate for a promotion but wants to get to know him better. He invites him to a dinner in which he must find and bring an eccentric person with a special talent to be mocked by the executives; the winner earns a trophy and the executive who brought him or her gets glory.

Tim excitedly tells his long-time girlfriend, Julie, about the possible promotion and dinner but she is offended by the idea of inviting strange people to a dinner just to mock them, telling him to refuse the invitation.

The next day, Tim accidentally hits Barry Speck with his car as he is trying to retrieve a dead mouse from the road. Witnessing Barry's bizarre behavior, including taxidermy and arranging mice into dioramas based on famous artwork, "Mousterpieces", Tim realizes he is the perfect idiot for the dinner. Julie finds out Tim is inviting Barry to the dinner and leaves their apartment after Tim insists he must go, as he has to in order to continue providing for them.

Barry shows up at Tim's apartment thinking the dinner event was that very evening, accidentally inviting over Darla, a female pro wrestler Tim slept with once, who is obsessed with him. After scolding Barry for inviting Darla over, explaining who she is, Barry takes it upon himself to keep Darla away from Tim, confusing Julie for her. Their conversation leads her to believe Tim is cheating on her and she once again leaves. When Tim realizes what Barry has done, he believes Julie may be at Kieran Vollard's, an artist whose work she is selling at a gallery and who has expressed interest in her.

Tim and Barry sneak into Vollard's apartment, but learn Julie is not there. They return to Tim's and Barry lets Darla in. Julie calls and asks Tim if he's having an affair, but Darla steals the phone, stuffing it down her pants. The call ends abruptly, making Julie believe he is cheating. As Tim hides in his bedroom trying to reach Julie, Darla and Barry have a bar-style fight, scaring Darla away.

Barry takes Tim to his IRS office to find Vollard's ranch address, meeting Barry's boss and rival, Therman Murche. He claims to have the "talent" of mind control, and has authored a book about it. He also had stolen Barry's ex-wife after Barry caught them cheating. Barry, Tim and Therman have a strange encounter, which results in Tim getting audited. Tim leaves the next day for a brunch with Mueller and his wife, but Barry crashes it, bringing Darla along pretending to be Julie. Tim is pushed into asking Darla to marry him, and Julie walks in during the proposal. Tim and Barry chase Julie down to Vollard's ranch, where Tim finally snaps at Barry about his actions.

At the dinner party, Tim is surprised to find Barry already at the dinner party, having forgiven Tim for his outburst. Barry's antics along with his "Mousterpieces" are a hit with the group, and he is seemingly a shoo-in for the trophy. Unexpectedly, however, Therman arrives as the "guest" of another executive, embarrassing Barry with his mind control. Tim then tells Barry the truth about the dinner party and, after some encouragement, gets Barry to defeat Therman by using his own powers of "brain control."

Fender congratulates Tim on bringing Barry to the dinner as his idiot, and Tim, offended, insults Fender before defending Barry. The other guests then learn they were brought to the dinner only to be mocked, leading to a chaotic brawl between the guests and the executives. The brawl ultimately leads to Mueller losing his finger and prized family ring and Fender's mansion burning down.

After returning to Tim's apartment, Tim and Julie manage to reconcile with Barry's help. Tim is fired, as is Julie, after Barry makes Vollard realize it would be a problem to have her continue working for him. Tim and Julie marry, Barry gets to have sex with Darla and also does some artwork with Vollard while Therman writes a book in a mental hospital.

A post credit scene reveals that Fender Financial went out of business and that Fender was named as Wall Street’s biggest loser.

