Contemplating suicide, depressed Craig Gilner seeks help at a hospital. He tells a doctor named Dr. Mahmoud that he needs immediate help, so he is registered for five days at the hospital's psychiatric floor.

Craig feels a lot of pressure from his high school, Executive Pre-Professional, and is stressed over needing to turn in an application for a prestigious summer school. Also he feels he has shortcomings in the shadow of his best friend Aaron, who is great at everything, and his dad, who pressures him to do well. At first, Craig is uncertain if he made the right choice to stay, fearing his friends may find out where he is, especially Nia, his crush and Aaron's girlfriend.

Craig is introduced to Bobby, a patient who takes Craig under his wing. During a group discussion, Craig learns that Bobby is stressed about an upcoming interview, hoping to move to a group home. Bobby worries that the sweater he is wearing is all he has to wear for the interview, so Craig offers him one of his dad's dress shirts to wear. Noelle, another patient who is in for self-harm, is impressed by Craig's kindness, so leaves him a note to meet with her later on. They attend a painting session for patients together, where Craig paints a picture of an imaginary city map which he describes as "like my own brain".

Throughout his stay, Craig bonds with various patients, including Bobby and Noelle. Bobby tells him he is a father of a little girl, and is in the ward for attempting to kill himself six times. As Craig tries to help Bobby with his problems, Bobby, in turn, helps Craig gain the courage to ask out Noelle.

One night, Nia stops by to visit Craig, revealing that she and Aaron have broken up. Craig invites Nia to his room, where she tries to seduce him. However, they are interrupted by Craig's roommate Muqtada, a patient who has not left the room during his stay. As Nia runs out, Craig chases her, declaring he loves her, unaware that Noelle is standing behind him. Upset, she storms off, leaving behind a self-portrait she had planned to give him.

Craig eventually wins Noelle's forgiveness, and the pair briefly sneak out of the ward, onto the hospital roof. There, Noelle asks him out, and they kiss. Craig has an interview with the head physician, Dr. Minerva; he explains that he has realized that he wants to become an artist, and is thankful his problems aren't as bad as some of the others, who are in jail for example.

That night, Craig asks the staff for a pizza party, so the patients can say goodbye to him and Bobby—both are being discharged the following day. Craig calls Aaron, asking him to bring a record. When Aaron arrives, he tells him that he and Nia are working out their problems and they hug. At the party, Craig plays the record of Egyptian music, bringing Muqtada out of his room. He tells Bobby they should meet again after they are discharged, which he considers, and Bobby thanks him for changing his future outlook.

After Craig is discharged, he narrates a montage showing he has started dating Noelle, become better friends with Aaron and Nia, and begun pursuing his goal to become an artist. He has broken the news to his dad that he is not going to follow his path, which his dad understands. Craig affirms that, while his stay didn't cure his condition, it helped him a lot, and he can get through the rest of his life with the help of his family and friends.

