Beavis and Butt-Head open the film with a special cameo, and an explanation of 3D technology. In a matter typical for the characters, they start arguing and quickly get into a slap-fight, with several of the moves especially animated to come out of the screen in a 3D setting. The opening sequence features each of the cast members lining up, standing in each color of the rainbow, while an operatic version of the ''Jackass'' theme song "Corona" plays. Once Johnny Knoxville introduces the film, each cast member does small stunts by various objects in slow-motion to the tune of "The Kids are Back" by Twisted Sister. The opening sequence, as well as many of the stunts, were filmed with Phantom high speed cameras, which shoot at 1,000 frames per second.

The most notable stunts and pranks include: Johnny Knoxville being camouflage-painted as a bull charges at him; Bam Margera falling into a pit filled with snakes while attempting to prank Jeff Tremaine; Ryan Dunn and Steve-O playing instruments while a male sheep rams them; Steve-O drinking Preston Lacy's sweat after riding an elliptical machine; Bam gluing his hands to Preston Lacy and Phil Margera's chest with super glue; Ehren McGhehey getting his crooked tooth pulled by Bam's Lamborghini; Dave England playing tetherball with a beehive against Steve-O; Preston Lacy getting a football kicked into his face by a professional NFL kicker; Wee Man participating in a bar brawl with other little people; and Chris Pontius flying an RC helicopter while it is tied to his penis.

The final stunt involves Steve-O being launched high into the air while inside a full port-a-potty connected to bungee cords. The following closing skit is done in a similar fashion as the introduction, as Knoxville announces he's about to "end the movie", then triggers an old-fashioned dynamite plunger; after the rest of the crew is disappointed by the initial explosion being a mere puff of air out of a nearby piñata, everything in the room is destroyed in a series of large explosions, as the blown-up objects are thrown at the cast (like the opening, all shown in slow-motion) to the tune of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky's 1812 Overture. After the explosions are finished, the cast members are flushed away by a wave pool. As in the past two ''Jackass'' films, comedian Rip Taylor makes an appearance before the credits roll, celebrating the end of the film in overly dramatic fashion.

