Kirk Kettner is a TSA agent at Pittsburgh International Airport. He attempts to reconcile with his ex-girlfriend Marnie, despite her treating him poorly. Meanwhile, an attractive and successful woman named Molly McCleish arrives at the terminal to board a flight. Kirk is the only TSA agent who does not flirt with or harass her, and saves her from his boss's unwanted advances. After boarding, she realizes she left her cell phone at security, and when her friend Patty calls it for her, Kirk answers. They arrange to meet the following day so he can return it.

The next evening, Kirk and his friend Devon arrive at the Andy Warhol Museum to return Molly's phone. Someone bumps into Kirk, causing him to spill his drink on the museum director. Thinking Kirk did it deliberately, the director tells him and Devon they must leave. As they leave the building, Molly follows them outside. Feeling badly about the misunderstanding, she offers Kirk tickets to a Pittsburgh Penguins hockey game. Kirk brings his friend Stainer to the game, where they meet Molly and her friend Patty. While Stainer and Molly are away from their seats, Patty tells Kirk that Molly is interested in him.

Molly asks Kirk out a few days later and he agrees. Stainer predicts that their relationship will fail—he considers Molly a "10" and Kirk a "5", and that the numerical "chasm" between them is too big. Meanwhile, Patty thinks Molly has  chosen Kirk only because he is "safe" and won't hurt her. On their date, Kirk tells Molly that he dreams of being a pilot; and Molly tells him she almost became a lawyer before realizing her love for event planning. At the end of the night, they kiss in Kirk's car.

Molly accompanies Kirk to a family lunch, where she charms the men and makes Marnie jealous. After returning to Molly's apartment, while making out, Kirk ejaculates prematurely in his pants moments before Molly's parents unexpectedly arrive. Desperate to conceal the stain on his pants, Kirk will not stand to shake hands with Molly's dad, and leaves quickly. Believing he fled to avoid meeting her parents, Molly ignores Kirk's calls. Kirk tracks her down, embarrassingly explains why he had to go, and she forgives him.

At Molly's sister Katie's 21st birthday party, Kirk is troubled by Molly being intentionally vague about Kirk's line of work to her parents. Molly's ex-boyfriend Cam, a stunt pilot, then arrives and alludes to Molly having a physical defect. After the party, they return to Molly's apartment and partially undress. Kirk discovers Molly's "defect" is slightly webbed toes, which Kirk considers so minor that he decides that she is indeed too perfect for him. Upset with Kirk over his insecurities and wishing that there was something wrong with her to justify them being together, Molly confesses that Cam had the same problem. She admits she asked Kirk out because she considered him safe, causing Kirk to break up with her. Kirk resumes his relationship with Marnie and makes plans to attend a family vacation in Branson together.

Later, Stainer asks an ex-girlfriend of his if he was good enough for her, she tells him that his insecurities caused her to end their relationship. Realizing he caused Kirk and Molly's break-up by telling Kirk that Molly was too good for him, Stainer phones Patty and gets her to bring Molly to the airport. Stainer tries to get Kirk off the plane he has boarded, but to no avail. He has Jack stop the plane, causing everyone to have to de-board.  Kirk flees from Marnie, who chases after him, and Kirk breaks up with her in the process. Kirk meets Molly at the terminal gate, where she confesses Kirk's insecurities about himself are justified, but that she wants to be with him regardless. They reconcile and resume their relationship. Later, Kirk surprises Molly with a mystery trip to Cleveland via small aircraft, revealing that he has fulfilled his dream of becoming a pilot.

