{{Long plot|date=March 2021}}
In Jotunheimen, a boy with a large birthmark covering one eye runs frantically through a blizzard, pursued by an unknown entity. Eventually, his pursuer catches up to him. Despite his pleas, the person proceeds to bury him alive in the snow.

Years later, a young group of friends consisting of Jannicke, her boyfriend Eirik, and their friends, Mikal, Ingunn, and Morten Tobias are going on a snowboarding vacation in Jotunheimen. They drive to a secluded area in the mountains to avoid the crowds. When they arrive at the peak, they immediately begin snowboarding down the mountain slopes.  Morten Tobias suddenly takes a bad fall and breaks his leg. Jannicke takes charge and sets his leg but realizes they cannot care for it properly out in the elements. They also have no cell reception and the car is too far away to get there before dark. Wandering over a hill, they spot a lodge and decide to seek help there.

When they get to the lodge, Eirik discovers that the place is deserted. He breaks in through a window and unlocks a door. As Jannicke looks for medical supplies she comes across a box that contains superglue and a single shotgun shell. Jannicke treats Morten's broken leg with alcohol and the superglue. Eirik, Mikal and Ingunn go explore the abandoned resort, while Jannicke stays to keep Morten company. The three discover the generator, which Eirik fixes, and power is restored to the resort. Afterwards, Mikal and Ingunn run off by themselves. While exploring the various lodge suites, they discover a room in disarray with a bed burnt to cinders. Eirik, on his way back to the parlor, hears a clanking noise from down in the cellar, and assumes it is Mikal and Ingunn. He calls for them to be more careful, but he receives no reply. With the lights back on, music playing and plentiful amounts of food and alcohol, the group relaxes in the parlor. Jannicke finds the hotel's guestbook and discovers that the last guest checked in some time in 1975 and there is a message reading "We hope you find your son". Inside the book, there is a picture of a family that includes the boy with a birthmark over his eye.

The group settles in for the night with Mikal and Ingunn running off to a suite, Jannicke and Eirik cuddling under blankets in the parlor, and Morten Tobias alone on the couch. Making out in bed, Mikal begins to get aggressive and Ingunn shoves him off. He then leaves in a huff. Ingunn hears a strange noise and, thinking it is Mikal returning, enters the hall. She is suddenly attacked by an unknown shape and runs through the halls screaming for help but is drowned out by the music playing in the parlor. Before she can reach Mikal, who is sitting at the bar, she is stabbed by a pickaxe and dragged away.

The next morning, Eirik leaves to go for help and Mikal heads to the suite to apologize to Ingunn. Eirik stumbles across Ingunn's body in the snow. He is then smashed in the head by the blunt end of a pickaxe. Mikal gets no answer from Ingunn so he and Jannicke explore the basement. They find items that were invented long after the lodge closed in the 1970s and become nervous. Jannicke goes to talk to Ingunn and enters the suite to discover it is covered in blood. She brings Mikal and Morten Tobias to the suite just as a blast of wind flows through the hallway from an open door. They realize someone else is in the lodge and barricade themselves in an empty suite. Footsteps are heard in the hall and someone begins to slam against the door, trying to get in. When they eventually leave, Mikal tells Jannicke they should run. She points out that Morten Tobias cannot and Mikal says they should just leave him. Jannicke refuses and Mikal escapes through a window. Jannicke and Morten Tobias watch through the window as Mikal hides in a shed. Suddenly, a massive Mountain Man appears outside wearing animals skins and goggles. He enters the shed and Mikal tries to run, but becomes stuck in a bear trap. The Mountain Man breaks Mikal's neck.

Jannicke drags Morten Tobias to a pantry and tells him to memorize the label on a can until she gets back. She narrowly misses being spotted by the Mountain Man as he drags Mikal's body inside. Jannicke runs to the shed where she finds some skis, a sled, and a shotgun. She runs into the parlor where she picks up the discarded shotgun shell and loads the gun. She goes back to the pantry and tells Morten Tobias that she has a plan.

They go down to the basement where Jannicke kills the generator, alerting the Mountain Man to their whereabouts. Morten Tobias finds a box cutter and puts it in his pocket. Jannicke waits for the Mountain Man to appear so she can shoot him but discovers the keys she gave to Eirik on the floor. When she enters the back room she finds Eirik tied up but alive. Unable to free him, she goes back to wait for the Mountain Man. When he appears, he goes straight into the back room. Jannicke points the gun at him, but he shuts off his flashlight and disappears into darkness. Thinking quickly, Jannicke shuts the door and locks him in the back room but refuses to leave him in there with Eirik. Opening the door, she shoots but is knocked askew by Morten Tobias who realizes the Mountain Man is using Erik as a human shield. The Mountain Man impales Eirik with his pickaxe, killing him. Morten Tobias tells Jannicke to run. He tries to stop the Mountain Man with a saw but to no avail, and The Mountain Man kills him. Jannicke grabs her skis and runs outside into the darkness only to be knocked out by the Mountain Man.

When she awakes, she is on the sled, buried under her dead friends. The Mountain Man brings them to a deep ravine and begins tossing the bodies over one by one. Jannicke grabs the box cutter out of Morten Tobias's pocket and lies still. Jannicke is the last to be dragged off the sled and, as the Mountain Man grabs her, she stabs him in the neck with the box cutter. They struggle over the pickaxe and end up on the ground by the edge of the ravine. As the Mountain Man is about to stab Jannicke, she rips off his goggles revealing a birthmark over his eye. Taken by surprise, the Mountain Man lets his guard down. Jannicke grabs his pickaxe and stabs him in the stomach, sending him over the ravine.

In a flashback, we see the Mountain Man as a boy, running from his pursuer. As he is covered in the snow, he looks up to see the faces of his parents burying him alive.

The Mountain Man hits the bottom of the ravine, surrounded by the bodies of Jannicke's friends. Jannicke, exhausted, collapses into the snow.

