In this latest interpretation, the characters Barb and her brother Johnny arrive late for their aunt's funeral and find the cemetery overrun with zombies. After Johnny abandons her, Barb flees the cemetery and is rescued by Ben, a local college student. The two seek refuge in the nearby farmhouse of the Cooper family (Henry & Hellie Cooper, Henry's daughter and Hellie's stepdaughter Karen, farmhand Owen, and farmhand Tom and his girlfriend Judy), and attempt to live through the night along with other survivors, including the pyrophobic mortician, Gerald Tovar, Jr. As Barb and Ben attempt to convince the Cooper family that the zombies are heading to the house, Tom and Judy are attacked while having sex in the barn. After hearing Judy's screams, Barb and the rest of the household attempt to save her, but they are too late. After recovering Henry's guns from his safe they begin to look for a missing Karen, she is later found by her mother having turned undead. She comes down the stairs as her father tries to block her from being shot by Ben. She bites her father in the neck and is promptly shot by Ben at his first opportunity. Later Tovar arrives fighting through the dead with a shovel, he explains what is happening. Owen the farmhand finally succumbs to zombie bite and becomes undead. While attempting to eat Ben Owen is killed by Tovar with a shovel.

Barb and Ben leave with Tovar to what they believe is safety, while Henry and Hellie barricade themselves upstairs. Distraught over the death of their child and the eventual reanimation of Henry, they decide to commit suicide, and do so.

After reaching his car, Tovar knocks Ben out and loads him into the trunk of his car. He chases Barb back to his house and reveals that he was the one who brought the zombies back to life, even so much as bringing his own father back and feeding him with his own blood. Barb sets the reanimated corpse of Tovar’s father on fire, Tovar is afraid of fire and unable to stop the small flame on his hand from engulfing him. Barb flees to Tovar’s car but Tovar catches her and punches her knocking her out. He then brings her back to the mortuary along with Ben still in the trunk. Ultimately, Tovar plans to have Barb reborn as a zombie. While handling Barb, Tovar doesn’t notice the group of zombies bind him and shoves him into them, she then rushes back to the car. Barb and Ben escape and lock the other zombies in the garage. Ben realizes that he has been impaled with a tire iron, but is apparently unharmed; moments later, he transforms into a zombie. Barb uses the last bullet to kill him, and the zombies break through the gate chasing her.

