A local sheriff enters a home where multiple homicides have been committed; the victims are three children and their babysitter, all slaughtered brutally by an intruder using his bare hands.

Meanwhile in Colorado, 125 miles away from the crime scene, 16-year-old Jill Johnson is on her way to babysit for the wealthy Mandrakis family, as a consequence for exceeding her cell phone minutes. When she arrives, Mrs. Mandrakis shows her around and tells her about their live-in housemaid, Rosa.

A long time after the parents leave, Jill begins to receive threatening phone calls from someone who, most of the time, does not say anything and then hangs up. She initially believes it is her friends playing a prank, but when she contacts them, they deny it. While the Mandrakis' two children are asleep upstairs, Jill is visited by her friend Tiffany, but in fear of getting into further trouble, Jill asks her to leave. While returning to her car, Tiffany is ambushed by an unseen intruder.

Jill receives a call from the person, indicating he can see her. Alarmed, she calls the police, who tell her they can trace the calls if she is able to keep him on the line for at least sixty seconds. While waiting for the phone to ring, Jill sees a shadow moving in the guest house. Believing it is the Mandrakis' son back from college, she goes to investigate, but finds the guest house empty. While in the guest house, the phone rings and it is the same caller. This only confirms her fear that he is watching her. She keeps him on the phone so the call can be traced, only to remember he called a different line. Jill looks out the window and sees a light has been turned on back at the Mandrakis' house.

Believing Rosa is home, Jill searches for her, but finds no one is there. The phone rings again, and the caller remains quiet on the other end; Jill manages to keep him on the line for a minute so the call can be traced. Jill then hears the shower running in the maid's room, but upon checking, the bathroom is empty. The police call her back saying to her “the calls are coming from inside the house and she needs to take the children & get out of the house.” Horrified, Jill finds Tiffany's body on the bathroom floor and flees.

Jill goes to the children who are already hiding in their playroom. She looks up and sees the intruder in the loft. They all escape into the greenhouse and hide; Jill discovers Rosa's dead body under the water. The assailant enters and searches the greenhouse. Jill manages to lock him inside, but he breaks out and attacks her. During the altercation, Jill manages to turn on the fireplace to scorch the assailant’s back then stabs the assailant's hand into the hardwood floor with a fireplace poker, before rushing out of the house into the arms of a police officer. The assailant is arrested.

Days later while recovering in the hospital, Jill awakens to a phone ringing. She gets out of bed and, while looking at her reflection in the mirror, the assailant appears behind her and grabs her. She begins to shriek hysterically, waking from her hallucination as the doctors and her father desperately try to stop her frantic panicking.

