During construction on the London Underground, workers penetrate a cave and a huge dragon emerges from hibernation, incinerating the workers with its fire breath. The only survivor is a boy, Quinn Abercromby, whose mother Karen, the project engineer, is crushed to death protecting him. The dragon flies out of the Underground and soon more dragons appear. Years later, the world's militaries have failed to stop the spread of the dragon population and, having grown increasingly desperate, targeted large populated areas with nuclear weapons, leaving humans nearly extinct by the year 2020. The dragons, now starving as well, are dying off and have become increasingly aggressive in search of food.

Quinn, along with his best friend Creedy, leads a community of survivors at Bamburgh Castle, Northumberland where he plans to outlast dragons until they go back into hibernation; as insurance, he shares his notes and plans with Jared, a teenage orphan he rescued as a child and is mentoring to eventually take over as community leader. The community is short on supplies and in a state of unrest pending the harvest of their meager crops. A survivor named Eddie and a group of his followers steal a truck to harvest the crops for food, but they are attacked by a dragon. Quinn, Creedy, and Jared come to their rescue in old fire engines, but the dragon kills Eddie's son before escaping and burns the majority of the crops, leaving the community without food.

Shortly afterward, a group of heavily armed Americans led by Denton Van Zan arrive in an armored convoy, including a Chieftain tank and an AgustaWestland AW109 utility helicopter. Quinn is initially skeptical and suspects that they are marauders, but Van Zan convinces him to let them stay for shelter and re-arming when he reveals the dragons' main weakness: poor vision during twilight. With Quinn's help, Van Zan and his team hunt and slay the dragon who destroyed the crops.

Van Zan introduces Quinn to Alex Jensen, his team's helicopter pilot and intelligence officer, and together they brief Quinn on their mission. After killing hundreds of dragons, Alex discovered that they were all female; she postulates that they reproduce quickly because the species relies on a single male to fertilize all the eggs en masse. Having tracked the spread of the dragons, they believe that the male is located in London and that if they kill it, the dragons will no longer be able to reproduce, effectively killing the species. Quinn, suspecting that the male dragon is the same one that killed his mother, refuses to help, knowing that London is infested with dragons and that if they fail, the dragons will track them back to their shelter.

Van Zan first recruits, then "drafts" the castle's six best defenders, despite Quinn's objections and a physical altercation between the two. Van Zan, Alex, and some of the castle's men then depart for London, but true to Quinn's warnings, their caravan is attacked by the male dragon. Everyone except for Van Zan and Alex are killed. The dragon then finds the castle and attacks, killing many of the inhabitants. Quinn gets the survivors to an underground bunker, but they are trapped by rubble when the dragon returns; during its final attack, Creedy is killed.

Van Zan and Alex return and free everyone trapped in the bunker. Quinn leaves Jared in charge and decides to help Van Zan and Alex hunt down the male dragon. They fly to London in Alex's helicopter and find hundreds of female dragons, one of which is cannibalized by the much larger male out of hunger. This scatters the female dragons and leaves the male alone and undefended. Van Zan coordinates a plan: split up, bait the male into attacking, ground him with explosive crossbow bolts, and then shoot one into his mouth once he is ground level. The plan initially works, but the dragon detonates the first explosive bolt early with its fire breath and Van Zan is devoured. Quinn and Alex gather the last explosives and together, they lure the dragon to ground level, where Quinn fires an explosive down the dragon's throat, killing it.

Three months later, Quinn and Alex erect a radio tower on a hill overlooking the North Sea, having seen no dragons since the battle in London. Jared arrives and reveals they have made contact with a group of French survivors who want to speak to the group's leader. Quinn officially declares Jared the new community leader and dedicates himself to rebuilding civilization with Alex.

