On the planet of Montressor, young Jim Hawkins is enchanted by stories of space pirate Captain Flint and his ability to strike suddenly and disappear without a trace, hiding his loot on the fabled "Treasure Planet". Twelve years later, Jim has grown into an aloof troublemaker after his father abandoned him when he was a child. He reluctantly helps his mother Sarah run the Benbow Inn, and is caught by police after recklessly skysurfing with a rocket-powered sailboard. A spaceship crashes near the inn, and the dying pilot, Billy Bones, gives Jim a sphere and warns him to "beware the cyborg". Pirates attack and burn down the inn, and Jim flees with his mother and their dog-like friend, Dr. Delbert Doppler. Jim discovers that the sphere contains a holographic star map leading to the location of Treasure Planet, and decides to seek out the legendary fortune.

Doppler commissions the ship RLS ''Legacy'', commanded by feline Captain Amelia and stone-skinned first mate Mr. Arrow. The ship's motley crew is led by cyborg cook John Silver, whose cybernetics lead Jim to suspect he is the person Bones warned him about. After being sent to work in the galley, Jim is supervised by Silver and his shape-shifting pet, Morph, and they form a tenuous father-son like relationship. When the ship encounters a supernova, Jim secures the crew's lifelines. As a black hole forms, ruthless insectoid crew member Scroop cuts Mr. Arrow's lifeline, sending him to his death. As the ship rides the shock waves to safety, Scroop frames Jim for Mr. Arrow's death by lying about his lifeline being unsecure, and Jim is comforted by Silver.

Upon reaching the Treasure Planet, Jim discovers the crew are indeed pirates led by Silver, and a mutiny erupts. Doppler, Amelia, and Morph abandon ship, and Jim retrieves the map. Silver cannot bring himself to shoot Jim, allowing him to escape with the others; another pirate shoots the escapees down, injuring Amelia. Jim discovers that the map is Morph in disguise, with the real map still on the ship. The group meets B.E.N., an abandoned navigational robot who used to belong to Flint, and now is missing his primary memory circuit. After being cornered by the pirates, Jim, Morph, and B.E.N. hijack a longboat and return to the ''Legacy'' to retrieve the map. Scroop attacks them, but B.E.N. accidentally disables the artificial gravity, and Jim kicks Scroop overboard into deep space. Upon returning, they are caught by Silver and his crew, who have captured Doppler and Amelia.

Silver forces Jim to use the map, directing them to a portal that opens to any location in the known universe with the map as its controls, which Flint used to conduct his raids. They open the portal to the core of Treasure Planet, which is actually an ancient space station built by a forgotten culture Flint commandeered to stow his treasure. The pirates enter and begin collecting the loot, while Jim finds the skeleton of Captain Flint, holding B.E.N.'s missing circuit in its hand. Jim reinstalls the part into B.E.N.'s head, and B.E.N. remembers that Flint rigged the planet to explode upon the treasure's discovery. As the planet collapses, Silver attempts to escape with a boatload of treasure, but abandons it to save Jim. The survivors board the ''Legacy'', which becomes damaged and unable to go fast enough to clear the explosion. Jim rigs a makeshift sailboard and rides ahead, setting the portal to Montressor Spaceport, and Doppler steers the ''Legacy'' through the portal to safety.

Jim finds Silver below decks and allows him to escape. Silver gives Jim Morph and half the treasure he managed to take so he can rebuild the Benbow Inn, believing Jim will "rattle the stars". Sometime later, a party is hosted at the rebuilt and improved Benbow Inn; Doppler and Amelia are married with quadruplets; B.E.N. has become a waiter at the inn; and Jim, matured under Silver's mentorship, has become a cadet at the Interstellar Academy through a letter of recommendation from Amelia. He looks to the skies and sees an image of Silver in the clouds.

