During Hotel Transylvania’s 125th anniversary celebration, Dracula is planning to retire and leave the hotel to Mavis and Johnny. Mavis overhears this and tells Johnny who excitedly tells Drac his plans to renovate the hotel. Worried about Johnny ruining the hotel, Drac lies to him saying that there is a "monster real-estate law" which only lets monsters own the hotel, disappointing Johnny.

Van Helsing decides to help Johnny using a ray that turns humans into monsters and vice versa. After testing it on his guinea pig Gigi, he uses it on Johnny who turns into a dragon-like monster. Learning about Johnny’s monster form, Drac tries to turn him back to normal, but accidentally turns himself into a human and breaks the ray's crystal. Van Helsing tells Drac and Johnny that they can still turn themselves back to normal by getting a new crystal which lies in the Cave of the Reflexión in South America, so Drac and Johnny set off to do so.

Drac’s friends Frank, Wayne, Griffin and Murray end up becoming humans as well, as a result of drinking from a fountain that was contaminated by the ray. After learning about Drac and Johnny's whereabouts on the news, Mavis and Ericka confront Van Helsing, but they are attacked by Gigi, where Van Helsing discovers that the effects of the ray are unstable, as the monster transformation will keep mutating until the subject becomes a mindless beast. With this in mind, the rest of the gang head to South America to find Drac and Johnny.

While traveling through the South American jungle, Drac and Johnny begin to bond, and Drac eventually begins to confess that he lied about the monster real-estate law, but the rest of the group finds them. Things turn sour when Drac admits his deception regarding passing over the hotel to Mavis and Johnny. This prompts an upset Johnny to believe Drac does not consider him family and to mutate further before running away.

Mavis goes to find Johnny while Drac and the rest of the gang go to the Cave of the Reflexión. Mavis finds Johnny, but the transformation has turned him very volatile. She leads him to the cave where they finally find the crystal. When Mavis tries to turn Johnny back to normal, nothing happens due to him being too frenzied. In desperation, Drac lets himself get captured by Johnny and makes a remorseful speech about how wrong he was about Johnny and how he now sees the best in him, finally acknowledging him as family. This brings Johnny back to his senses, and he is returned to normal.

With Drac and his friends turned back to normal, they return home only to find the hotel has been destroyed by Gigi. After turning Gigi back to normal, Drac decides to let Mavis and Johnny rebuild the hotel to their liking. One year later, Mavis and Johnny re-built and modernised the hotel, which Drac comes to enjoy.

