While hosting a party in the Spanish town of Del Mar, legendary hero and outlaw Puss in Boots rouses a giant, subdues it, but is crushed by a bell. Waking up in a hospital, Puss is informed by the town doctor that he has lost eight of his nine lives{{efn|Previous lives were lost during a bullrun, in a poker game against dogs, falling off a ledge, being incinerated while making cookies, launched out of a cannon, crushed by a large weight, and an allergic reaction to shellfish.}} and that he should consider retiring. Despite initially refusing to do so, Puss loses a duel with a black-hooded wolf at the local pub that night, causing him to flee to the house of Mama Luna, an elderly cat lady, to be a domesticated pet, ending his hero status. Months later, Puss meets an optimistic Chihuahua disguised as a cat, whom he calls Perrito.{{efn|Spanish: diminutive for {{lang|es|perro}} ({{translation|'dog'}}).}} Goldilocks and her Three Bears Crime Family soon arrive at Luna's home, looking to hire Puss to help them steal a map bearing the Wishing Star's location, but fail to recognize him, and leave after finding his "grave". Puss decides to use the Star to restore his lost lives.

Accompanied by Perrito, Puss travels to the factory lair of corrupt pastry salesman and magical artifact collector "Big" Jack Horner, who intends to use the Star to control all the magic in the world. Puss finds the map, but is interrupted by his resentful ex-fiancée Kitty Softpaws. Goldi, the Bears, and Horner arrive on the scene; Puss and Kitty escape with the map and Perrito, but Puss sees the Wolf behind them in the distance. The map leads the trio to the Dark Forest, a pocket dimension that changes its appearance depending on the map's holder. During another clash with Horner, his henchmen, Goldi, and the Bears, Puss sees the Wolf in the distance again and flees, allowing Goldi to obtain the map from Kitty. After Perrito calms Puss' ensuing panic attack, Puss confesses his fears, and his remorse for abandoning Kitty just before their wedding. Kitty overhears them, and reveals that she never attended the wedding either, believing Puss loved himself too much to love her.

Puss and Kitty retrieve the map while Goldi and the Bears are distracted by a manifestation of their woodland cottage. As the dimension shifts, Puss accidentally traps himself in Cave of Lost Souls, where he encounters his arrogant past eight lives, and the Wolf, who reveals himself as Death. Offended by Puss' failure to value his extra lives, Death intends to take Puss' final life prematurely. Horrified, Puss runs out of the cave towards the Star alone, leaving Kitty and Perrito behind. Meanwhile, Goldi reveals to the Bears that her wish is to be reunited with her biological family; although devastated, the Bears agree to help her. Puss climbs onto the Star and begins to make his wish, but Kitty confronts and berates him for his selfishness, and confesses that her wish was to find someone she could trust. Before Puss can tell Kitty the truth, Goldi, the Bears, and Horner arrive, and a fight ensues for the map; Goldi briefly obtains the map, but abandons it to save Baby Bear, while Kitty traps Horner inside his magical bottomless bag. 

Death arrives at the Star; says he enjoyed the chase and challenges Puss to a duel. Having learned the value of life from his time with his companions, Puss forgoes wishing for more lives and accepts, temporarily disarming the Wolf. Puss declares that he knows he can never defeat Death, but he will never stop fighting for his last life. Seeing that Puss has lost his arrogance, Death begrudgingly spares him, but they both acknowledge that they will eventually meet again one day, and Death disappears. Puss and Kitty reconcile until Horner eats a magic snack, becoming a giant and escaping the bag. Perrito distracts him long enough for Puss and Kitty to perform the Spanish Splinter. Puss, Kitty and Goldi destroy the map, causing the Star to collapse and consume Horner. In the aftermath, Goldi affirms to the Bears that they are her true family, and they leave to take over Horner's bakery. Puss rekindles his romance with Kitty; later, the two cats and Perrito steal a ship, setting sail for the Kingdom of Far Far Away.

