Nemo is a young girl who lives in a lighthouse with her widowed father Peter, a lighthouse keeper. Peter tells her wild bedtime stories about his adventures with Flip, his partner from the old days when they were outlaws.

One night during a storm, Peter heads out to help a distressed boat. Nemo is later visited by the family friend Carla who informs her that Peter became lost at sea. With Nemo devastated by the news, Carla persuades Nemo's estranged uncle Philip to take her in before she becomes a ward of the state. In contrast to his brother Peter, Philip is a doorknob salesman who leads a lonely, boring, and monotonous life. Nemo moves to the city with Philip and the two find it difficult to adjust to each other. When enrolled at a local school, she struggles to fit in as she meets school counselor Ms. Arya and a student named Jamal.

One night, she is awakened when her stuffed pig (Pig) comes to life. In reality, she is still asleep and in Slumberland, the world between dreams. Here, she meets Flip, learning that he is real and not simply a character her father made up. A stubborn and unscrupulous outlaw, Flip is looking for a map that will lead him to magical wish-granting pearls. 

Nemo finds the map in the waking world and takes it back to Slumberland by sleeping through classes. Flip begrudgingly allows her to join him for the pearls so she can wish her father into her dreams. Nemo learns that Flip has refused to wake up for so long he no longer remembers who he is in the real world. He uses the map as a guide through various people's dreams to get to the Sea of Nightmares, where the pearls are. They are attacked by Nemo's nightmare, a cloud of smoke resembling a kraken. Flip is later imprisoned by Agent Green of the Bureau of Subconscious Activities (BoSA) for intruding on people's dreams. 

In the real world, Philip shows Nemo an old videotape of him and Peter playing together as children. Nemo realizes that Flip is Philip's dream alter ego. As Flip has not woken up, Philip has lost that part of his personality and become Flip's opposite: docile and unadventurous. Nemo returns to Slumberland to rescue Flip. At the Sea of Nightmares, she reveals to him who he really is. The truth of his boring real life upsets him and Flip decides never to wake up. Nemo is awakened by Ms. Arya, who calls Philip to bring up her progress in school. This event leads to an argument between her and Philip.

Nemo runs away from home and sails through a storm back to the lighthouse. She hits her head and passes out in the boat, sending her back to Slumberland. In the Sea of Nightmares, she acquires a wishing pearl. Flip saves her from the kraken nightmare as in the real world, she falls into the water, unconscious. Philip arranges a rescue boat captained by Carla and heads toward the lighthouse, terrified by the storm. When the nightmare grabs Flip, Nemo uses her wish to force Flip to wake up. In the real world, Philip becomes emboldened and dives into the water to rescue Nemo.

In Slumberland, Green commends Nemo on using her wish to save Flip, saying Nemo has finally found something more important than what she has lost. Green reveals that Pig actually swallowed two pearls, allowing Nemo to wish to see her father again. Peter appears and the two spend time together before he tells her that life is waiting for her in the real world and she cannot stay. Nemo says goodbye to her father and wakes up, where Phillip embraces her, now embedded with the personality of Flip.

Nemo begins to improve her life in the waking world, making friends at school and repairing her relationship with her uncle as they make use of one of Peter's boats for sailing.

