<!--
PLEASE DO NOT add more detail to this summary, but instead adjust what is already present. Wikipedia's guidelines for film plot summaries state that they should be no more than 700 words; this summary is 700 words long as of February 2, 2023.
-->
In 1818, Abraham Lincoln lives in Indiana with parents Nancy, and Thomas who works at a plantation owned by Jack Barts. There, Lincoln befriends a young African-American boy, William Johnson, and intervenes when Johnson is beaten by a slaver. Because of this, Thomas is fired. That night, Lincoln sees Barts break into their home and attack Nancy, who falls ill and dies the next day.

Nine years later, Lincoln attacks Barts at the docks in revenge, but discovers that he is a vampire. Before Barts can kill him, Lincoln is rescued by Henry Sturges, who had earlier met him at a bar. Sturges offers to teach Lincoln how to be a vampire hunter and he accepts. After a decade of training, they travel to Springfield, Illinois. Sturges explains that the vampires in America descend from Adam, a powerful vampire who owns a plantation in New Orleans with his sister, Vadoma. Sturges reveals the vampires' weakness is silver, and presents him with a silver pocket watch.

In Springfield, Lincoln begins hunting vampires named in letters by Sturges, befriends shopkeeper Joshua Speed and meets Mary Todd. Though Sturges warns him of forming close relationships, Lincoln develops romantic feelings for Mary. Later, Lincoln successfully finds and kills Barts, but not before learning Sturges is also a vampire. Lincoln confronts Sturges, who reveals that Adam turned him and killed his wife, as he was impure, and she wasn't. Vampires cannot kill each other so Sturges needs hunters like Lincoln to get his revenge.

Feeling betrayed, Lincoln abandons his mission, but his actions have been noticed by Adam, who captures him after being lured to a trap by kidnapping Johnson. Adam tries to recruit him to his cause to turn America into a nation of the undead, but Lincoln refuses before the two are rescued by Speed.

Lincoln marries Mary Todd and begins his political career, campaigning to abolish slavery, despite Sturges warning him that the slave trade keeps vampires under control due to being their food source. After Lincoln's election as President of the United States of America, he moves to the White House with Mary, where they have a son, William Wallace Lincoln, who is later bitten by Vadoma as retaliation and dies.

After Confederate President Jefferson Davis convinces Adam to deploy his vampires to the front lines, Lincoln orders the confiscation of all the silver and melted to produce silver weapons to be transportation on a train. Speed seemingly betrays Lincoln by informing Adam about the train, which Adam then attacks after setting fire to an upcoming trestle. During the fight, Speed is killed, and Adam learns that the train holds only rocks, revealing Speed's betrayal was a ruse to lure Adam into a trap. Lincoln uses his watch to punch Adam, killing him, before escaping with Sturges and Johnson as the burning trestle beneath the train collapses. 

Meanwhile, Mary and the ex-slaves have transported the silver to Gettysburg through the Underground Railroad. While delivering the silver to the army, Mary recognizes Vadoma and kills her by shooting a silver necklace bearing the sword of one of William's toy soldiers. Armed with silver weapons, the Union soldiers destroy the vampires and turn the tide. 

Nearly two years later, on April 14, 1865, Lincoln celebrates the end of the war as Sturges informs him that the remaining vampires have fled the country and tries to convince Lincoln to become a vampire, who declines before leaving with Mary for a play.

In modern times, Sturges approaches a man at a bar in Washington, D.C., just as he once did with Abraham.

