A few years after the events of the second film, both the government and the general public have become aware of the existence of the Vampires and Lycans. A program to study and potentially harness their powers soon escalates into an all-out genocide and shortly after the Purge begins, Selene and Michael are captured by humans. Due to her enhanced vampiric traits, Selene is imprisoned in cryogenic suspension.

After being frozen for twelve years, during which both species have been hunted to the brink of extinction, Selene manages to escape. She learns that another subject has also fled from the facility. While running away, Selene has visions from someone else's point of view. She follows the visions and encounters David, a young vampire who has been tracking her. Sick and weakened Lycans also appear; they are hunting the subject with whom Selene is connected. Selene fights her way through the Lycan pack and reaches the second escapee: a frightened and confused young girl.

Selene, David and the girl drive away using a stolen van, only to be attacked once again by a trio of Lycans. David and Selene kill two while the third smashes its way into the rear of the vehicle and bites the girl's shoulder. She partially transforms and rips the creature in half, revealing her hybrid traits. Selene realizes this is her and Michael's daughter. During her own escape from the facility, the girl found Selene's cryogenic tank and deactivated it. That is why Selene could escape. Despite her hybrid nature, the girl's bite wound does not heal and she is rapidly growing weaker, so David decides to take the pair to his coven.

After she reluctantly drinks some blood, her wound heals. But as they do not feel welcome in the coven, due to the fact that the girl is noticeably different from Vampires, Lycans and even Hybrid, Selene prepares to leave. David tries to convince her to stay and help them start an offensive against the humans. Before she makes up her mind, the coven comes under attack by Lycans. Selene joins the fight and kills many Lycans before being knocked unconscious by a huge "Super-Lycan" that heals instantly and is not affected by silver. She later awakenens and finds that Thomas, David's father, has surrendered her daughter to the Lycans in return for them leaving. David has been mortally wounded in the battle, but Selene revives him with her blood. After leaving, she confronts Sebastian, a human detective who is sympathetic to the vampires due to his dead wife being a vampire. Sebastian confirms that the Lycans have been traced to Antigen, the corporation dedicated to killing off vampires. They also run the facility from which Selene has escaped.

Antigen is actually run by Lycans, who have been posing as humans in order to trick the world's governments into believing the Lycans are extinct. The director of Antigen, Dr. Jacob Lane, is trying to perfect the Lycan race and needs the DNA of Selene's daughter to do so. The "Super-Lycan" Selene faced earlier is Quint, Lane's son and the prototype for Lycan modifications. Selene and Sebastian assault Antigen to stop Lane and save Selene's daughter, who they begin calling "Eve". Selene comes across Subject 0, whom she identifies as Michael, and attempts to free him by shooting his cryogenic tank. However, she is forced to leave the thawing Michael in order to stop the Lycans from escaping with Eve. David, who since being healed by Selene's blood has inherited her immunity to sunlight, arrives and helps the heroes. In the ensuing fight, Selene confronts Quint. She tricks him into returning to his more vulnerable human form by hiding in a narrow tunnel and kills him by implanting a silver grenade in his stomach. Meanwhile, Eve kills Lane by ripping out his throat. As the police arrive, Selene, Eve, and David return to Michael's tank and find it empty. Knowing that the world will be hunting Michael, the trio vows to find him first.

