{{expand section|date=December 2022}}
In a cotton plantation in 1863, Peter is seen sitting on the floor of a house knelt before his wife, Dodienne, alongside their children sitting around him. Suddenly, a group of white men appear at the doorway and snatch a reluctant Peter out of the house, with him putting up a fight until one of the men points a gun at his wife’s head. Peter is then hit in the back of his head, put into a cage at the back of a carriage, and is taken away from his family to a different site. He shouts to his wife and children that he will come back and they should stay together. On his journey, he sees slaves working at the roadside and the heads of slaves that have been killed on poles. Peter is then sent to work on constructing a railroad in Clinton, Louisiana. 

The slaves are treated with cruelty by white guards and the boss, Fassel. They are whipped, set upon by dogs, branded and dragged by horses if they try to run away or shot if they stop working because of exhaustion. Peter tells the disheartened slaves to just believe in God and pray. 

One day, Peter has had enough, and he uses an opportune moment to fight back at the white men along with other slaves. They escape and run away, while being chased by the white men on horseback and vicious dogs. One slave is unable to swim across a river due to crocodiles and is caught by the dogs. After revealing the locations of the other slaves to Fassel, he is then freed and tries to cross the river but is then shot. The three remaining men split up and go about their separate ways. Peter has many close encounters with being found, but somehow manages to stay hidden from his enslavers. When Peter is close to Baton Rouge, Fassel catches to him and is about to shoot him, when he is shot in the head by a Black member of the 1st Louisiana Native Guard. 

Peter, who is saved by members of the regiment, is taken to a hospital to recover. A photograph of his back is then taken and is vowed to be shown all over the world to aid the end of slavery. Peter then decides to join the army to help free his family. After a victorious battle against Confederate soldiers, he returns to various cotton plantations to free the slaves, while also reuniting with Dodienne and their children. In the epilogue, the text states that it is due to Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation that by 1865, over 4 million slaves have been freed.

