Sergeant First Class James Harper, a decorated Green Beret, is involuntarily discharged from the army due to his use of illegal steroids to treat a debilitating knee injury. Facing financial ruin, he contacts his friend Mike who works with a private military company under the command of fellow veteran Rusty Jennings.

Harper is receiving lucrative offers from similar firms, but feels a sense of duty to his country. Mike tells him that Rusty runs clandestine operations for the Department of Defense. Harper agrees to meet Rusty after seeing Mike's opulent house. Harper signs on with Rusty and the team for an operation in Germany. As a sign of good faith, Rusty gives Harper's family $50,000 to help clear their debts.

Harper spends most of his tour surveilling a Middle Eastern scientist named Salim. After analyzing the data, Rusty informs the team that Salim is working for Al-Qaeda and developing a bio-agent. He tells the team they have been given permission to raid Salim's laboratory and retrieve all of his research data and then dispose of Salim. The team easily accesses the lab and acquires the data. Mike orders Harper to finish Salim, who protests that he is just a scientist working on a cure. Harper follows orders and then departs after setting the lab on fire, carrying Salim's laptop containing the research data. The team are confronted by the police and after a prolonged shoot-out, during which the remaining team members are killed, Harper rescues a wounded Mike and they hide in a nearby storm drain.

Mike, believing he is about to die, begs Harper to look after his family and get the data to Rusty. Harper provides a blood transfusion and saves Mike's life. After recuperating, Mike is ready to return to Rusty and the main team, but Harper's knee has given out on him, and he needs to rest up. Mike proceeds alone with Salim's laptop but informs Harper he will be picked up from a specific location after he is sufficiently rested.

Harper makes it to the hotel and finds fresh clothes and a note from Mike saying that he went to hand off the laptop. He tries to treat his injured knee and waits for Mike to return. When Mike doesn't come back Harper leaves the hotel, gets a burner phone, and makes contact with Rusty, who informs him there is a car waiting to exfiltrate him to safety, but Harper senses something is amiss when Rusty tells him that Mike never made it to Berlin. As he delays going to the car, a hit team emerges and they shoot at Harper. Harper evades capture and manages to kill the hit team, who are revealed to be former Recon Marines working for Rusty. Before dying, one of the Marines gives Harper intel on a safe house but advises him that he can never return home.

Harper visits Salim's home, threatening Sylvie, Salim's wife, into providing him with Salim's computer files. Sylvie gives Harper her husband's iPad, and he leaves for the safe house. After Harper meets Virgil, he is tranquilized and awakens in the safe house. Virgil explains that Harper's knee was infected, and that while it has been treated, Harper still cannot return to his family. Harper plays a video on the iPad in which Salim explains that he was indeed working on a successful H5N1 vaccine formula that he intends to provide for free, rather than sell to a pharmaceutical company. While Virgil shares dinner with Harper, another of Rusty's fire teams attacks. Virgil is killed, but Harper escapes, setting off a booby trap for Rusty's team.

Harper returns to the United States. He tracks down Mike, who explains that Rusty also lied to him and told him Harper had died. Rusty has provided for Harper's family, and Mike advises Harper to disappear; Harper protests.  Winning his old friend over, they set-up a plan to get revenge on Rusty.

Mike gets Harper into Rusty's compound, where they surprise Rusty's guards. While Mike distracts everyone with a frontal attack, Harper infiltrates Rusty's house. Harper manages to terminate Rusty but not before Rusty has mortally wounded Mike. Harper is finally able to return to his family.

