Annie Walker is a single, underachieving, down-on-her-luck woman in her mid-thirties living in Milwaukee. Her bakery failed due to the recession, wiping out her savings and causing her boyfriend to leave her. Having lost her passion for baking, she works a stressful, underpaid job at a jewelry store and shares an apartment with British immigrant siblings Gil and Brynn. Annie has a casual sexual relationship with the wealthy and self-absorbed Ted, who treats her like an object. The only positive presence in her life is her lifelong best friend, Lillian. When Lillian becomes engaged to her boyfriend Doug, she asks Annie to be her maid of honor.

At the engagement party, Annie meets Lillian's bridesmaids: Rita, Lillian's long married and cynical cousin; Becca, Lillian's naïve newlywed coworker; Megan, Doug's raunchy and foul-mouthed but friendly sister; and Helen, the wealthy and snobby trophy wife of Doug's boss. Annie and Helen are instantly jealous of each other's friendship with Lillian and become increasingly competitive for her attention.

Annie's suggestion for a bachelorette party at Lillian's parents' lake house is overruled in favor of a Las Vegas trip planned by Helen. Unable to afford a first-class ticket and too proud to allow Helen to pay, Annie books a ticket in economy class. Annie accepts a sedative and liquor from Helen to calm her massive fear of flying and begins to hallucinate, suffering a paranoid breakdown that ends with her being apprehended by a U.S. Air Marshal. The plane makes an emergency landing, and the party takes a bus back home. Annie apologizes, but Lillian decides it's best if Helen takes over planning the bridal shower and wedding.

Meanwhile, Annie grows closer to Nathan Rhodes, an Irish-American Wisconsin State Patrol Trooper who let her off without a ticket for broken brake lights. Nathan, who had been a regular customer at Annie's bakery, repeatedly encourages her to open a new one, although Annie is resistant to the idea. After a romantic night together, Nathan surprises her with baking supplies, but Annie panics and leaves abruptly.

Annie is fired from the jewelry store after a profane argument with a teenage customer and is later evicted by her roommates, forcing her to move in with her mother. She then travels to Helen's home in Chicago for the extravagant bridal shower, which is Parisian-themed - an idea of Annie's that Helen had previously rejected. After Helen upstages Annie's heartfelt gift by gifting Lillian a trip to Paris, an enraged Annie throws a tantrum and destroys the outside décor. Angry that Annie has now ruined every event in the wedding, Lillian kicks her out of the shower, disinvites her from the wedding, and ends their friendship.

As Annie returns home, her still-broken taillights result in a car accident, from which the other driver flees. Nathan is the responding officer, much to Annie's chagrin, and he admonishes her for not fixing her taillights or taking responsibility for her life. Ted arrives shortly after to give Annie a ride, causing Nathan to storm off in disgust; however, when Ted asks Annie to perform oral sex on him as he drives, she demands to be let out of the car and walks home, leaving him for good.

Annie becomes reclusive, but a visit from Megan finally motivates her to take control of her life. Annie resumes baking, gets her car fixed, and tries to make amends with Nathan, who ignores her. On the day of the wedding, Helen appears at Annie's doorstep begging for help finding Lillian, who has disappeared. Helen apologizes to Annie, tearfully revealing that while others seek her out for her skill in planning events, she does not have any true friends and feels lonely in her marriage. With some begrudging help from Nathan, they find Lillian hiding out in her own apartment, having become overwhelmed by Helen's extravagant wedding planning and fear of leaving her life in Milwaukee. Annie reconciles with Lillian and resumes her role as maid of honor.

After the wedding, Annie and Helen finally become friends. Annie also reconciles with Nathan, who arrives unexpectedly to pick Annie up after the wedding (a gesture strongly implied to have been arranged by Helen). Annie and Nathan kiss, then ride away in Nathan's police car.

