Doug Glatt is a polite, kind-hearted, but dim-witted bouncer at a bar in the fictional hockey crazed town of Orangetown Massachusetts. He feels ostracized from society, especially since his father and brother are both highly educated and successful physicians. 

Doug attends a minor league hockey game with his best friend Pat who hosts a public broadcast show called Hot Ice. Pat taunts the visiting team during a fight and one of their players climbs into the stands, calling him a faggot. Doug, whose brother is gay, steps in and easily beats up the opposing player. The next day, he gets a phone call from the coach of his hometown team The Orangetown Assassins, who offers him a job as an enforcer.

Meanwhile, veteran enforcer and Doug's idol Ross "The Boss" Rhea is demoted to the minors after serving a 20-game suspension for slashing an opponent in the head from behind. Three years prior, he hit and concussed the highly skilled prospect Xavier Laflamme, who has had trouble recovering from the incident due to his fear of being hit again. 

As a result, Laflamme is still stuck in the minors, playing for the Halifax Highlanders. As Doug's reputation grows, eventually earning the nickname "Doug the Thug," the Highlanders' coach Ronnie hires him to protect Laflamme and be his roommate.

The Highlanders experience success with Doug as their enforcer, and he quickly becomes popular among fans and teammates, much to the disapproval of his parents and Laflamme, who loses ice time and the alternate-captaincy to him. Meanwhile, Doug becomes romantically involved with Eva, a hockey fan with a penchant for sleeping with players.

With four games left on their schedule, the Highlanders need two wins to secure a playoff spot. On a road game in Quebec, after an opposing player concusses Laflamme with a heavy hit, Doug savagely beats the player unconscious and is suspended for the next game against Rhea and the St. John's Shamrocks. 

Doug encounters Rhea at a diner, where Rhea dismisses his belief that he is a hockey player, insisting that they are both "goons". Though Rhea acknowledges Doug's physical prowess and gives Doug his respect, he warns him that if they ever meet on the ice, he will not hold back. 

The Highlanders, with Doug suspended and Laflamme hospitalized, lose to the Shamrocks. The aging captain of the Highlanders, an inexperienced fighter, challenges Ross to a fight. Ross offers him a chance to back out but the player denies it, so he easily defeats him.

Doug reaches out to Laflamme and promises to always protect him on the ice; the incident touches Laflamme, who reconsiders his animosity towards him. In their next game, the Highlanders lead 2-1 thanks to strong teamwork between Doug and Laflamme. In the final seconds, Doug blocks a slapshot with his face and his ankle is injured in the ensuing scramble. The Highlanders win, but still need a win in a rematch with Rhea and the Shamrocks in their last game for a playoff spot.

Eva breaks up with her boyfriend to be with Doug, asserting that he is who she's really in love with. Doug later allows her now-ex-boyfriend to beat him up, believing that he deserves it for coming between them.

After two periods, the Shamrocks are beating the Highlanders 2–0. Rhea and Doug mutually agree to fight in the third period. Although Rhea manages to knock him down and Doug re-breaks his recently injured ankle, Doug refuses to back down and eventually emerges victorious, knocking his tooth out. Ross smiles at seeing his tooth, satisfied that he lost to someone he considers a worthy opponent. 

Eva and his teammates help a seriously injured Doug off the ice and Laflamme, inspired by Rhea's defeat, scores a natural hat trick, giving the Highlanders a 3–2 lead. As the game enters its final minute, Eva comforts Doug in the locker room as he comments, "I think I nailed him."

