Best friends Rick and Fred are in stagnant marriages with their wives, Grace and Maggie. The two discuss how they miss their single days, so Grace and Maggie give them a "hall pass": a week during which they can have sex with other women. Rick and Fred try to pick up women with their friends Gary, Flats, and Hog Head while Maggie and Grace decide they should get hall passes, too.

On day one of hall pass week, Rick and Fred decide to eat before going to a local bar but become too tired after eating to stay out longer.

On day two, they eat hash brownies and play golf but get too high and wreak havoc on the golf course.

On day three, Rick and Fred go to a bar with their friends but fail to impress the women there. They get drunk to loosen up, but wind up getting into a bar fight.

On day four, they suffer the hangovers from day three.

On day five, Rick goes to his favorite coffee shop, where he flirts with the attractive waitress named Leigh, angering her co-worker Brent, who wants her for himself. Rick and Leigh later meet at her gym and she invites him for a beer after they work out. Rick falls asleep in the hot tub for several hours, leaving his muscles too weak to use; two naked men have to help him leave. Meanwhile, Grace and Gerry get closer, and Maggie finds herself attracted to Gerry's coach.

On day six, Rick and Fred go to a bar with their single, womanizing friend Coakley, where Rick meets his children's babysitter Paige, who has just turned 21 and is partying with her aunt Meg. Paige is attracted to Rick, but he turns her down to dance with Leigh. Later, Rick parties at Coakley's while Fred takes a girl to his hotel room. However, she feels sick and, after a minor incident in the bathroom, is sent home in a taxi by Fred before anything happens. Later that evening, Meg shows up at the room and mistaking Fred for Rick, seduces him.

Meanwhile, Gerry's coach tries to seduce Maggie but she rebuffs him. Grace, on the other hand, has sex with Gerry but tells him she can't see him again; he agrees, saying she is too old for him. On her way back home, she feels guilty about cheating on Fred and has a car accident.

At Coakley's house, Leigh offers Rick casual sex. To his own surprise, Rick turns her down, saying he loves Maggie too much to cheat on her. After answering Fred's phone, Rick learns of Grace's accident and rushes to the hotel to tell him. In the lobby he finds Paige, who thinks he was having sex with Meg. They enter the room and find Fred with her. After finding out he's not Rick, Meg kicks Fred in the face.

On hearing about Grace's accident, Fred tries to go to the hospital but finds Brent vandalizing what he thinks is Rick's car because of jealousy over Leigh. On seeing Meg (his mother) at the hotel, Brent thinks Fred has had sex with her and tries to kill him, but Paige and Meg tackle him. Rick and Fred go to the hospital with Brent and the police in pursuit. At the hospital, Brent is arrested for attacking them.

Rick goes home to Maggie. He tells her he did not use the hall pass and confesses that she is the only woman he has ever been with. Moved, Maggie tells him she did not use her hall pass, either, and they reconcile and have sex for the first time in months.

Fred and Grace also reconcile and decide to stick to not divulge, as per the 'hall pass'. However, Fred ultimately reveals that he had sex with Meg when Grace asks him to take her to see Kathy Griffin.

During the credits, Fred hosts a barbecue where he pays Kathy Griffin to be present. Gary's wife suggests that she give him a hall pass. Gary imagines sleeping with a married woman and then accidentally killing her, her entire family, and several bystanders and being raped in prison; but he then shrugs it off and agrees to "give it a whirl".

