Danny Maccabee is a successful, formerly engaged plastic surgeon in Los Angeles who feigns being in an unhappy marriage to get women without having to face romantic commitment. The only woman aware of his schemes is Katherine Murphy, his office manager/assistant and a divorced mother of two. At a party, Danny removes his ring to tend to a child's scraped knee. Shortly afterwards, he meets Palmer, a young sixth-grade math teacher. They spend the night on the beach together, but Palmer finds Danny’s wedding ring in his pocket the next morning and leaves, upset that he seemingly cheated on his wife with her.

Instead of telling Palmer the truth, Danny claims he is getting divorced from a woman named Devlin after she cheated on him with a man named Dolph Lundgren. When Palmer insists on meeting Devlin, Danny convinces Katherine to pose as her and give them her blessing. After Palmer overhears Katherine talking on the phone with her children, Michael and Maggie, she assumes they are Danny's as well and requests to meet them. Danny convinces Michael and Maggie to go along with the scheme, though they blackmail him to take them all to Hawaii. At the airport, they run into Danny's cousin Eddie, who is traveling in disguise as "Dolph Lundgren" whilst running from his ex-girlfriend's new boyfriend. To maintain the facade, Danny and Katherine are forced to bring him along.

At the resort in Hawaii, Katherine and Danny run into the real-life Devlin Adams and her husband Ian Maxtone-Jones. Over time, Katherine becomes impressed by Danny and his way of interacting with her family. Devlin invites Katherine and Danny out to dinner. Palmer suggests that she and Danny get married, having learned from a drunken Eddie of Danny's plans to get engaged. Though surprised by her proposal, Danny agrees.

Palmer asks Katherine if she still has feelings for Danny, which Katherine dismisses. Katherine runs into Devlin at a bar and admits that she pretended to be married to Danny to avoid embarrassment, and Devlin confesses that she is divorcing Ian, as he is gay. While Katherine is confiding in Devlin about her feelings towards Danny, Danny arrives and states he is not marrying Palmer because he is in love with Katherine, and they kiss. Palmer meets a professional tennis player who shares her interests, and Danny and Katherine eventually marry.

