{{Long plot|date=September 2011}}
Nova Prescott (Aimee Teegarden) is on the prom committee with her friends Mei Kwan (Yin Chang), Ali Gomez (Janelle Ortiz), Brandon Roberts (Jonathan Keltz) and Rolo Banus (Joe Adler). Nova hopes Brandon, whom she has a crush on, will ask her to go to the prom. Lloyd Taylor (Nicholas Braun) complains to his stepsister Tess Torres (Raini Rodriguez) that he has no date. Mei discovers that she has been accepted at a different university than her boyfriend Justin Wexler (Jared Kusnitz) and worries about telling him as prom approaches. Lucas Arnaz (Nolan Sotillo) is in love with his lab partner Simone (Danielle Campbell) and turns to his friend Corey Doyle (Cameron Monaghan) to help him ask her to the prom. The only one who does not care about the prom is Jesse Richter (Thomas McDonell). He works at a local market, stocking shelves; plays truant, rides his motorcycle across the schoolyard, and behaves inappropriately. Principal Dunnan (Jere Burns) tries to talk but does not get through to him.

Meanwhile, Jordan Lundley (Kylie Bunbury) finds an earring in her boyfriend's car, Tyler Barso (DeVaughn Nixon) but he assures her that he's not cheating. To show his love, he takes her on a date in the shed where the prom decorations were stored; Tyler forgot to extinguish one candle before they left, and the shed and everything in it was burned down. With only 3 weeks left, Nova is left to manufacture replacement props alone. The principal, annoyed at Jesse's lack of respect, gives him a choice: either he helps Nova with the rebuild, or he can't graduate. Jesse accepts reluctantly, as does Nova; and realize they need each other's cooperation. While Brandon disappoints Nova by not asking her to the prom, she and Jesse grow closer, despite the fact that he finds the idea of prom ridiculous. When Nova discovers that the prom theme of the neighboring school is the same as theirs, Jesse decides to sneak into their school to check it out. However, the security guard notices them, and the police catch them after they escape. The police call Nova's parents, and when Nova's father arrives, he snaps at Jesse.

Meanwhile, Lloyd still cannot find a date and becomes frustrated. Lucas asks Simone to a barbecue hosted by his friend Tyler. Tyler tries to talk and flirt with her, but she rejects him, because he is dating Jordan. Meanwhile, the stress in Mei and Justin's relationship reaches its breaking point, and Mei cancels on Justin for fear of telling him about her acceptance. At school, Lucas blows off Corey to spend more time with Simone and invites her to study for the upcoming test with him. However, en route to the library, Simone is stopped by Tyler, who convinces her to talk with him about his feelings. Jordan sees the two talking and immediately realizes the situation. After school, Nova apologizes to Jesse for her father's behavior. Later, she brings him along as she goes dress shopping, for a second opinion. Back at school, Simone apologizes to Lucas for having ditched him. She has a surprise, tickets to a concert, where Stick Hippo (his and Corey's favorite band) is opening. Lucas wants to take Simone instead of Corey, much to his dismay. Jordan dumps Tyler for his unfaithfulness and decides to go to prom alone. This prompts him to ask Simone to prom, which is the same night as the concert, and she agrees. Simone tells Lucas that she cannot attend the concert.

Mei apologizes to Justin and tells him the truth, but instead of feeling hurt, he tells her he is proud of her, and agree to attend prom together. As Lloyd gets rejected by another girl, he spots Lucas sitting outside the school, looking dejected. He learns of his situation and tells Lucas his own problem. Two nights before the prom, Nova, Ali, and Mei are in Nova's room, chatting. Nova confesses to them that she has feelings for Jesse, which her father overhears. The next day, Nova's father tells Jesse he cannot ask Nova to prom, because he is "bringing her down". That afternoon, Jesse is unusually hostile towards Nova and deserts her. On prom night, Lucas climbs a tree to reach Simone's window. He tells her how he feels and begs her not to go to prom, but she does anyway. Disappointed, Lucas realizes what a bad friend he has been to Corey and offers him the other concert ticket.

At her house, Nova is heartbroken. Her father explains that he was the one who told Jesse not to ask her to prom. Angered, Nova storms out of the house. Meanwhile, at Lloyd's house, it is revealed that he is taking his sister to prom. At Jesse's house, his mother has a talk with him, and he realizes that he should still take Nova to prom. At the school, Tyler leads Simone into the building, and almost immediately abandons her. Simone finds out that it was actually Jordan who dumped Tyler, and Tyler had gone to her with no other option. As Tyler and Jordan are pronounced prom king and queen, Jordan refuses to participate in the king-and-queen dance. When Tyler asks Simone to dance, she refuses and leaves. She goes outside to wait for Lucas, and they share a dance. Nova is having a bad time, and when Ali tells her the fountain centerpiece has failed, she cannot take it anymore. As she is about to leave, she hears the fountain start again, and knows the only person who could have fixed it was Jesse. He walks up to her and asks her to prom. She agrees, and they dance followed by a kiss.

