OSS agent Marissa Wilson is attempting to capture a criminal named Tick Tock, who purchases a mini-disk stolen from the OSS. Despite being nine months pregnant and going into labor, she continues her pursuit against the admonitions of her boss Danger D'Amo. Tick Tock is captured and the mini-disk, which contains information on a weapon of mass destruction called Project: Armageddon, is retrieved.

At the hospital, Marissa meets her spy-hunting TV host husband, Wilbur, and her two stepchildren, twins Rebecca and Cecil. Marissa gives birth to a daughter, Maria. A year later, Wilbur has created a 5-year plan in which if his show is successful, he will spend more time with the kids. Rebecca does not accept Marissa as a replacement for her deceased mother and delights in playing pranks on her. Attempting to strengthen her rapport with Rebecca, Marissa gives her a red-sapphire necklace. The media reports that time is speeding up at an increasing rate.

A criminal mastermind called the Time Keeper claims responsibility, saying that he will unleash Project: Armageddon as a punishment upon a society that he believes wastes time with meaningless pursuits instead of treasuring time with their loved ones. The Time Keeper demands that Tick Tock bring him the Chronos Sapphire, which is revealed to be the jewel in the necklace Marissa gave to Rebecca. The OSS calls Marissa out of retirement and instructs her to bring the Sapphire with her. When Marissa asks for it from Rebecca, it further strains their relationship.

At OSS Headquarters, Marissa discovers that Rebecca has swapped out the Chronos Sapphire for baby food. Tick Tock's henchmen break into Marissa's house, and Rebecca and Cecil are directed to take refuge in a Panic Room, where they view a video of Marissa informing them of her secret career and that their dog Argonaut is a talking, weaponized robot. The twins escape and go to OSS headquarters, where Marissa's niece and their step-cousin, Carmen Cortez, gives the twins a tour of the defunct Spy Kids Division, allowing them to take a gadget as a souvenir each.

The twins go after the Time Keeper, where their search leads them to a clock shop, which is Tick Tock's headquarters. The twins view a video of the Wells Experiment, which reveals the nature of the Chronos Sapphire in Rebecca's necklace, as it saves a boy frozen in time by the experiment. The twins are captured by Tick Tock but are rescued by Marissa and Carmen, though Tick Tock manages to steal the Sapphire. Wilbur begins an investigation to capture his first spy and unknowingly captures footage of his family fighting off the Time Keeper's henchmen.

Shocked to learn that Marissa is a spy, he gets fired when he destroys the footage that he and his cameraman filmed of the battle and becomes estranged from Marissa and the children. As time continues to speed up, OSS agents are debriefed on the Wells Experiment. The OSS shut down the experiment and place the device under lockdown. Among the agents assigned to the case is Carmen's estranged brother, Juni Cortez. The twins confront Danger over the fact that his watch is similar to the one worn by the Time Keeper, and his name is an anagram of "Armageddon".

He reveals that he is the Time Keeper and imprisons them in their room. When a group of OSS agents led by Marissa, Carmen, and Juni return to the clock shop to confront the Time Keeper, he freezes the agents in time using circuitry in their ID badges and does the same to 18 major cities. Juni, who wasn't frozen due to Carmen angrily throwing away his ID badge into the trash, manages to free Marissa and Carmen. Danger reveals the Armageddon Device was created to travel back in time and that his father was head of the Wells Experiment, and he was the boy frozen in time.

His father spent the rest of his life trying unsuccessfully to set him free. The OSS managed to shut down the experiment with a solution that "literally fell from the sky", the Chronos Sapphire. Now, Danger plans to use the Armageddon Device to go back in time to spend more time with his father. Cecil deduces that Danger has already tried this multiple times, but he comes back worse each time and reveals that Tick Tock and his minions are all versions of himself. Rebecca tells Danger that he should use what time he has wisely instead of trying to acquire more.

Danger enters the finally open time vortex and goes to finally meets his father, then he returns as an elderly form of himself and realizes that Cecil was right. He shuts down the device, and Tick Tock is apprehended by Wilbur, who is reunited with Marissa and the children, promising he won't wait to have time for them, instead, he will make time for them. Carmen and Juni announce they will co-lead a revived Spy Kids program, while Rebecca and Cecil become recruiters of new agents, including the audience members watching the movie.

