Andy Barclay has been torturing the disembodied head of the original Chucky for four years. Meanwhile, wheelchair-using Nica Pierce has been in a mental institution after being framed by Chucky for the murders of her family. Nica now believes she was responsible for the murders and that Chucky was a manifestation of her psychosis. Dr. Foley, Nica's doctor, has her transferred to a medium-security psychiatric hospital.

In group therapy, Nica meets Malcolm, a man with dissociative identity disorder; Angela, a woman who believes she is dead; Claire, a woman who burned her house down; and Madeleine, a patient who smothered her infant son. Foley introduces a therapy technique involving a Good Guy doll. Most of the patients are unsettled except for Madeleine, who treats it as her baby. Nica is visited by Tiffany Valentine, the legal guardian of her niece Alice, and is devastated to learn that Alice has died. Tiffany leaves Nica a Good Guy doll, which she claims was a gift from Alice. That night, Chucky awakens and discovers Nica has slit her wrists. The next morning, Nica finds that her wrists have been stitched up and that Angela has been killed. After realizing "Valentine" was the last name of Chucky's girlfriend, Nica realizes Chucky is real. Fearing Madeleine is in danger, Nica has Malcolm warn her. Madeleine throws both the doll and Malcolm into an empty grave, but they are rescued by orderlies. Malcolm begins to refer to himself as "Charles" and act in a manner similar to Chucky, making Nica suspect he has been possessed. Chucky then kills Claire by decapitating her.

Andy learns about the murders and realizes Chucky has somehow managed to transfer his soul into multiple bodies at once. In a private session with Foley, Nica agrees to be hypnotized in order to access any repressed memories about the murders. Foley, who has been sexually abusing Nica, is hit from behind by Chucky. Foley believes Nica is the one who assaulted him but is willing to keep quiet in order to blackmail her for more sexual favors. Madeleine smothers her Good Guy doll with a pillow, forcing her to confront the repercussions of her real child's death. Orderlies bury the doll in order to placate Madeleine. Andy commits himself into the institution by assaulting a security guard. Carlos, a nurse, delivers a package to Foley—another Good Guy doll with short, shaved hair. Madeleine is visited by her own doll and allows it to kill her.

Foley attempts to assault Nica again but is knocked out by one of the Chucky dolls. Two dolls are now alive due to Madeline's doll splitting its soul inside of Foley's doll. One of the dolls awakens the short-haired doll. The Chuckys reveal that the original Chucky found a voodoo spell on the internet which allowed him to separate his soul into multiple host bodies, creating a "cult." Alice was one host, but she was killed. The dolls then kill Carlos. Tiffany returns and kills a security guard outside. Foley's Chucky doll splits his soul into Nica, giving her body the ability to walk again. She stomps on Foley's head, using high-heeled shoes that Foley had given Nica earlier, killing him. She stumbles upon Malcolm, who has killed fellow Nurse Ashley, before confessing that he knows he is not really Chucky; he merely created "Charles" as an alternative personality. He is suddenly ambushed and killed by Madeleine's Chucky. The short-haired Chucky attacks Andy, but Andy restrains him and reaches into the doll's chest, pulling out a hidden gun and revealing that he sent him to the institution. He shoots the doll and stomps its head, killing him. Nica appears and taunts him. Andy tries to shoot at her, only to discover that he has no ammunition left. Nica locks Andy inside his cell.

Madeleine's Chucky feigns lifelessness and Nica, possessed by Foley's Chucky, escapes. She reunites with Tiffany outside before driving off together with a Tiffany doll, also alive and sharing a portion of Tiffany's soul. In a post-credits scene, Andy's former foster sister, Kyle, enters Andy's house, having been sent to continue torturing the original Chucky's severed head.

