Courtney is a medical student who is obsessed with the idea of the afterlife. She invites her classmates, Jamie and Sophia, to join her in an experiment, in an unused hospital room: using defibrillation to stop her heart for sixty seconds while recording her brain. She assures them they would not be held responsible for any accidents. Sophia is against this, but Jamie does it anyway. After sixty seconds, they are unable to revive her until a fellow student, Ray, steps in to help. Marlo, another medical student, arrives and learns of the experiment.

Courtney begins to recall memories of past events and experiences increased intelligence and euphoria. Envious, Jamie flatlines, but has a disturbing near-death experience as he meets his ex-girlfriend. Marlo and Sophia follow suit, increasing the duration of time they are down. During Sophia’s turn they are nearly caught and flee the hospital.

Those who flatlined experience visions: Courtney sees her sister Tessa, who died in a car crash Courtney caused, Jamie sees the baby he begged his ex-girlfriend to abort, Marlo sees a patient named Cyrus, who died when she accidentally mixed up his medication, and Sophia sees Irina, whose life she ruined out of jealousy, allowing Sophia to become valedictorian. Everyone keeps their visions a secret from each other.

Courtney, traumatized by her visions, records a message apologizing and admitting that her interest in flatlining was due to the death of her sister, not for scientific discovery. She falls to her death from the fire escape of her apartment building after her sister's ghost pushes her. The others are devastated but realize they may be implicated if anyone discovers their experiments. After attempting to remove all evidence from Courtney’s apartment, Marlo goes to the morgue to find Courtney’s phone, where she is disturbed by more visions.

On his boat, Jamie again hears the cries of a baby and a woman weeping. He falls out of his boat and swims to the dock where a figure stabs him in his hand.

The group watches Courtney's recording and find out that she had similar visions to their own. They admit the mistakes they made and come to the conclusion that the hauntings they are experiencing are hallucinations because of guilt from their sins, not paranormal beings. The only one who did not flatline, Ray, initially disbelieves what is happening.

Sophia visits Irina to apologize, which Irina accepts. Jamie visits his ex-girlfriend and discovers she kept the baby; he apologizes and promises to provide for his son. Ray and Marlo get into a fight when Ray finds out Marlo covered up the real reason Cyrus died and she refuses to confess. Marlo hallucinates being suffocated while driving and crashes her car. Tired of being haunted by her hallucinations, Marlo flatlines on her own in the hope of asking Cyrus for forgiveness. She sees Courtney, who tells Marlo that she needs to forgive herself. Ray, Sophia and Jamie arrive to resuscitate Marlo.

Marlo confesses to the Dean and is held on probation. Marlo, Ray, Sophia and Jamie meet to reminisce about Courtney.

