A day after the events of the first film, the police discover the Creeper's truck filled with dead bodies; however, the truck is booby-trapped with spikes. When Sheriff Dan Tashtego arrives, he informs Sergeant Davis Tubbs of the Creeper and its motives. They rush to get the Creeper's truck back after learning it is headed for the impound. As Frank and Deputy Lang transport the vehicle, the Creeper abducts Frank.

The next day, Kenny Brandon's mother Gaylen sees a vision of Kenny, who was killed by the Creeper; he warns it will come for what he buried on the property and will kill her and his niece Addison. Tubbs joins a small team Tashtego put together from relatives of Creeper victims to kill it. A group of teenagers discover the Creeper's truck in a field; one of them, Kirk, accidentally activates the spear, getting impaled in the leg. As the other boys try to free him, the Creeper kills them all. Addison goes into town to buy hay for her horse and joins her friend Buddy in delivering hay to a plantation house. They find the owner and workers hiding under cars; the owner tells them to call for help. The Creeper abducts Addison. Gaylen digs up the hand Kenny found; she touches it, going into a trance.

When Tashtego's team arrives, Gaylen reveals the hand can tell them about the Creeper; Tashtego touches the hand, left shocked by how ancient the Creeper is. Addison wakes up in the Creeper's truck with Kirk; Kirk accidentally activates a booby trap, causing a metal pipe to impale his head. Tashtego and Tubbs discover the Creeper's location and they head off, along with Michael. They find the Creeper driving down the highway, but when they shoot at it, the bullets deflect and Michael is killed. A small explosive is ejected from the Creeper's truck and Tashtego and Tubbs' car lands in a field. Before the Creeper can kill Tubbs, Tashtego shoots at him from a minigun, but the bullets have little effect and the Creeper manages to kill Tashtego with an axe. With most of the team gone, Tubbs retreats.

That night, the Creeper discovers that Addison is still alive, but before he can kill her, she causes the metal pipe to shoot out and impale the Creeper’s head. The Creeper loses an eye and then tries using his weapons to kill her, but his aim is off. He is hit by a truck and Addison runs away. When the truck driver gets out to see what happened, he is killed and his body is used by the Creeper to heal itself. Addison hides in a field where she is found by Gaylen and Buddy. The Creeper returns to Gaylen's house where he finds a sign that says 'We know what you are', along with the hand, and howls in anger. The next day, Addison says goodbye to Buddy before he leaves for a high school basketball game in the same bus that is attacked by the Creeper before its hibernation.

Twenty-three years later, Trish Jenner is seen reading an open letter she presumably wrote on a computer calling for people to fight against the Creeper when it returns and vows to get revenge on the Creeper for the death of her brother, Darry.

