In 1969, a mass murder occurs in Madison, Wisconsin, during which a man kills people on his block. As he shoots the neighbors, he continuously asks if anyone spoke about "the name" that cannot be said. He repeats over and over: "Don't say it, don't think it; don't think it, don't say it".

In the present day, Elliot, his girlfriend Sasha, and friend John move into a house not far from their college. Soon, strange things begin to happen, such as Sasha developing an unusual cough and Elliot finding coins in a nightstand that continually reappear. Elliot also finds writing consisting of "don't think it, don't say it", and a name - the Bye Bye Man. During a séance involving their friend Kim, the name is mentioned.

Sasha continues to become sick as Elliot and John start experiencing hallucinations. Elliot also begins to suspect that Sasha is cheating on him with John, as Elliot's brother Virgil had said at the party before the Bye Bye Man was released. A librarian shows Elliot a dossier about the Bye Bye Man. A teenager killed his family and told a reporter that the Bye Bye Man made him do it. The same reporter later became a mass shooter in 1969 after realizing that other people knew about the Bye Bye Man. Kim is killed when she is struck by a train. Elliot is taken in for questioning by Detective Shaw, and is released when Kim's suicide note reveals that she killed her roommate and was planning on killing Elliot, Sasha, and John.

Elliot also visits the reporter's widow, who reveals that the curse causes insanity, hallucinations, and eventually, death. Signs of his coming are coins mysteriously appearing, sounds of a train, and a large, skinless hound. The only way to prevent it is to not think of his name or speak of him. If someone already knows, they must be killed. The librarian is accidentally hit by Elliot's car after she killed everyone in her home, coming for Elliot next.

Sasha and John are also suffering from hallucinations. Elliot finds John stabbing Sasha. He shoots John, but after he picks up the corpse, Sasha  is revealed to have been stabbing John. The Bye Bye Man appears and Elliot hallucinates. Elliot keeps Virgil and his daughter Alice away long enough for him to kill himself with a gun. Virgil and Alice get away before the entire house goes up in flames.

While riding home, Alice reveals she found the coins from the nightstand near the trash, along with the writing, but she could not read it in the dark. Detective Shaw arrives at the scene, where John is found to be alive, but wounded. John then whispers the name to Shaw, allowing the curse to spread again.

