Clare Shannon, a seventeen-year-old high school outcast, is haunted by the memory of her mother's suicide that she witnessed as a young child.

Her father, Jonathan, who becomes a hoarder and dumpster diver, finds a Chinese music box and gives it to Clare. Clare deciphers one of the inscriptions on the box as "Seven Wishes," and absentmindedly wishes for Darcie, her school bully, to "rot," at which point Darcie develops necrotizing fasciitis. That same day, Clare's dog Max dies in her house's crawlspace. Clare deduces the box grants wishes.

Clare makes a second wish that a popular boy named Paul would fall madly in love with her and he does (so much so he starts to stalk her), that same night Clare's wealthy great-uncle dies. Hearing this, Clare wishes to be in his will, which rewrites itself and leaves everything to Clare. Consequently, friendly neighbor Mrs. Deluca perishes as her hair gets caught in the kitchen waste disposal, breaking her neck.

Clare enlists the help of her Asian classmate, Ryan Hui, to decipher the symbols on the box. His cousin Gina is able to decipher that each of the seven wishes comes with consequences. They now understand the link of wishes to catastrophes. The trio's research reveals the box belonged to a Chinese woman named Lu Mei; during a 1910 outbreak of bubonic plague in China, Mei's family was forcibly quarantined in a railroad car where all but Mei died. Mei prayed for revenge at a temple and offered up her family's only valuable heirloom, the music box, as a sacrifice, at which point a demonic Yaoguai spirit cursed the music box. After using the box to get her revenge, Mei committed suicide, with the box later passing through a string of owners, all suffering tragic fates.

Gina emails the text to an associate for help with the deciphering. Clare makes a fourth wish that her father will stop being so embarrassing; he stops dumpster diving and starts playing the saxophone again. Soon after, Gina and her associate decipher the meaning of the final phrase: "When the music ends, the blood price is paid." Before she can warn Ryan, Gina is impaled on a statue in her loft and dies. After Ryan finds Gina's body, he confronts Clare about making a wish, which she denies.

Clare makes a fifth wish that she be popular, but is soon unhappy with the consequent attention and losing her relationship with her old friends, Meredith and June. Shortly afterwards, Meredith dies when the elevator she's in plummets many floors.

While comforting Clare, Ryan reveals that after the seventh wish, the Yaoguai will claim the soul of the box's owner. They go to her house and unsuccessfully try to destroy the box. Clare hides the box in an air vent. Her friend June steals the box, knowing Clare won't get rid of it. Per the rules of the wishes, Clare loses everything she had wished for. When Clare wrestles the box back from June, she causes June to fall down a staircase to serious injury.

Clare refuses to abandon the box and her sixth wish is that her mother never committed suicide. Clare's mom knocks on her bedroom door, along with two younger sisters who didn't previously exist.

While rummaging through her mom's paintings, Clare finds a picture of the music box. She concludes that her mom was a previous owner, leading to her suicide. Clare runs outside to warn her father to move away from his friend Carl, who is removing a tree branch with a chainsaw. When Jonathan turns, the ladder wobbles and Carl accidentally decapitates Jonathan. Clare rushes back to the box and makes her seventh wish – to go back to the morning her father found the box.

Clare is able to find the box moments before her father, preventing the tragic sequence of events. Clare goes to school and asks Ryan to bury the box for her, kisses him, then walks into the street and is killed when she’s accidentally hit by Darcie's car, the Yaogaui having claimed her soul.

In a mid-credits scene, Ryan prepares to bury the music box, but becomes intrigued by the inscription about the seven wishes.


