In 1951 Hollywood, Eddie Mannix is head of physical production at Capitol Pictures. His duties as the studio "fixer" find him covering up for its scandalous stars, fending off twin gossip columnists Thora and Thessaly Thacker, and weighing a generous job offer from the Lockheed Corporation. When unmarried synchronized swimming actress DeeAnna Moran becomes pregnant, Mannix arranges for Moran to place her baby in foster care then discreetly adopt it, preserving her career.

Baird Whitlock, the talented but dim-witted star of the studio's major production ''Hail, Caesar! A Tale of the Christ,'' is drugged and abducted. He awakens at a meeting of "The Future", a group of blacklisted Communist screenwriters, and is easily won over to their cause. The Future send a ransom note demanding $100,000 for Whitlock's return, which Mannix procures from the studio. He convinces Thora to withhold a story in exchange for information on singing Western film star Hobie Doyle.

Doyle has been hopelessly miscast in a sophisticated comedy of manners and, despite the efforts of director Laurence Laurentz, cannot overcome his thick Western American accent. When Laurentz requests Doyle's removal, Mannix convinces him to continue his coaching. Doyle admits to Mannix his trepidation about the role, but Mannix reassures him and confides in him about Whitlock's kidnapping.

That evening, Doyle attends the premiere of his latest Western with starlet Carlotta Valdez, as arranged by Mannix. The pair are accosted by the Thacker sisters, but Doyle spots the briefcase of ransom money, carried by musical star Burt Gurney. Mannix and Moran meet with surety agent Joseph Silverman, a trusted scapegoat for the studio, who agrees to foster Moran's child. His dependability proves immensely attractive to Moran. Doyle follows Gurney to The Future's beach house but finds only Whitlock inside. The Future have taken Gurney to rendezvous with a Soviet submarine and defect to the USSR, but lose the briefcase in the ocean. Doyle returns Whitlock to the studio as police arrive to arrest the group.

Whitlock spouts his newfound Communist beliefs to Mannix, who slaps Whitlock and orders him to "go out and be a star" and finish ''Hail, Caesar!'' The next morning, Mannix learns that Moran has married Silverman. Mannix declines Lockheed's offer, remaining at Capitol Pictures. Thora tells him that her column will reveal Whitlock won his role in an earlier picture by having sex with Laurentz, but Mannix tells her that if he exposes her source, Gurney—a Communist and recent Soviet defector—it will tarnish her reputation. Thora backs down from running the story and Mannix moves on, confident in his role in life.

