Estranged brothers Rahul and Arjun Kapoor are compelled to return to their childhood home in Coonoor when their 90-year-old grandfather Amarjeet suffers a heart attack. Rahul is a successful novelist and entrepreneur based in London who appears to be the most mature in the family. Arjun, on the other hand, is a part-time bartender and struggles to get his books published, resorting to working part-time as a bartender in Newark to make ends meet and writing in his spare time. Their parents, Harsh and Sunita, favor Rahul for being successful, which upsets Arjun. While the brothers struggle to get along, their parents grapple with their troubled marriage. Harsh is discouraging of Sunita's wish to open a catering business, and his past extramarital affair has blemished their relationship. While recovering in the hospital, Amarjeet expresses that his last wish is to take a family photo titled "''Kapoor & Sons, since 1921''".

Sunita finds out that Harsh has broken her FD in order to pay some bank loans. She feels cheated, as she had saved the money to start her catering business. Sunita confronts Harsh and they get into an argument, which soon involves both Arjun and Rahul. Arjun leaves the house in the heat of the moment and goes to a party to divert his mind, where he befriends and becomes attracted to the homeowner, a young and free-spirited girl named Tia Malik.

Rahul also meets Tia the next day while surveying her property, and the two go out for dinner. Rahul drops her home, which is when the two realize that the power is out. While trying to fix the system, to Rahul's surprise, Tia spontaneously kisses him. Rahul does not share this with anyone.

During a date with Tia, Arjun tells her he suspects Rahul of plagiarizing his idea to write his bestselling novel, but that he never confronted his brother to avoid causing another rift in the family. The ending was different, but the characters and subplots were very similar. After the date, Tia confides in her friend that she has feelings for Arjun and regrets kissing Rahul.

The Kapoor family throws a party to celebrate Amarjeet's birthday. Arjun discovers that Tia and Rahul know each other and fears that they have something between them, but Rahul clarifies that he is already in a committed relationship in London. Problems arise when the family finds out that Harsh invited Anu, the woman with whom he had an affair, leading to another argument that ends the party. Harsh and Sunita later reminisce on how happy they were. Harsh apologizes for losing all their money.

On her birthday, Tia discloses that she lost her parents at the age of thirteen in a plane crash. They had gone to Canada for her uncle's surgery and missed her birthday. She regrets that during her last conversation (i.e. a phone call) with her parents, she told them to never return.

The Kapoor family tries to fulfill Amarjeet's wish to take a family photo, but various damaging secrets come to light that day. Rahul finds out that his father was lying about having ended his affair with Anu, while Sunita discovers that the relationship Rahul has in London is actually with another man. Tia regretfully tells Arjun what happened between her and Rahul, angering him. The family photo doesn't take place because Sunita walks away angrily. Harsh tries to talk to her, but she doesn't listen. He gets into his car and drives away to cool down. Arjun later finds out that Rahul has been reading his latest manuscript, and physically attacks him. Sunita breaks up the fight and admits to Arjun that she gave his first manuscript to Rahul, thinking that Arjun was not serious about becoming an author. After calming down a bit, Sunita gives Harsh a call. Harsh tries to pick up the phone while driving and gets hit by a truck due to not paying attention to the road. He dies as a result of his injuries, devastating the family. After the funeral, Rahul comes out as gay to Arjun and the two leave for London and Newark, respectively.

After four months, the brothers receive a video message from Amarjeet, requesting them to come back, as he is feeling alone. Sunita comes to terms with Rahul's homosexuality, Arjun's book is going to be published and Arjun and Tia get back together after clearing their misunderstanding. The family finally takes the family photo Amarjeet wanted, where they place a cutout of Harsh in his memory.

