In the Spirit Realm, Grand Master Oogway fights against General Kai, a spirit warrior yak who has defeated all the other deceased kung fu masters and stolen their ''chi''. Oogway has his own ''chi'' stolen, but not before he warns Kai that someone is destined to stop him. Kai uses the ''chi'' he stole to return to the Mortal Realm.

Meanwhile, Master Shifu announces his retirement from teaching, and names Po as his successor. Po's first attempts to teach inadvertently injure the Furious Five, and Shifu, who predicted the calamity, advises Po should try to be more like himself and less like Shifu. Disheartened, Po returns home, where he meets Li Shan, a panda that both quickly realize is Po's biological father, who came to find Po after receiving a sign from the universe that his son was alive. The two immediately bond, much to the dismay and jealousy of Po's adoptive father Mr. Ping.

After introducing Li to Shifu and the Five, Po joins the Five to defend the Valley of Peace from Kai's jade zombies, the remains of the kung fu masters that had their ''chi'' stolen. Through research, the group learns that Kai and Oogway were once friends and that Kai saved a wounded Oogway's life by taking him to a secret panda village to be healed. The pandas taught Oogway to give healing ''chi'', but Kai learned to take ''chi'' from others for his own personal power, forcing Oogway to banish him to the Spirit Realm. Li offers to take Po to the village to learn ''chi'' and defeat Kai, while Shifu and the Five prepare to protect the Valley. Mr. Ping stows away, hoping to drive a wedge between Po and Li, but is soon discovered. Upon arriving at the village, Li refuses to teach Po ''chi'' until he has learned to live the relaxed lifestyle of a panda.

Kai, hoping to erase Oogway's legacy, steals the ''chi'' of every living kung fu master and destroys the Jade Palace. Only Master Tigress escapes, tracking down Po and telling him what happened. When Po demands that Li teach him how to use ''chi'' immediately,  Li confesses that he lied about knowing ''chi'' out of fear of losing his son again. Hurt by his father's misdirection, Po disowns Li and trains alone to defeat Kai, while a repentant Mr. Ping sympathizes with Li and assures that Po will forgive him.

While training, Tigress attempts to stop Po, and assures that he cannot defeat Kai alone. Po rebuffs and the pair end up fighting. Po reveals his plan to Tigress, to get hopefully close enough to Kai and put him in a Wuxi Finger Hold, but Tigress informs him that will not work because of Kai’s army, and he will never get close enough to use such a technique. Realizing this, Po finally admits to Tigress that he cannot defeat Kai and his army alone. Li, Mr. Ping and the pandas ask Po to teach them kung fu. Realizing what previously made him fail as a teacher, Po trains them to not imitate his kung fu but instead to use their everyday activities as kung fu skills. Between training, Po and Li reconcile, and both prepare for Kai's attack.

Kai arrives with his jade zombies and attacks the village. Po's students fight them, distracting Kai long enough for Po to try the Wuxi Finger Hold technique to banish Kai to the Spirit Realm. Kai, a spirit warrior, reveals that the technique only works on mortals, and savagely attacks Po. To save the others, Po grabs Kai and uses the Wuxi Finger Hold on himself, banishing them both to the Spirit Realm. Infuriated, Kai binds Po and begins to steal his ''chi''. In the Mortal Realm, Li, recognizing that finding one's true self is the key to unlocking ''chi'', leads the others to give their ''chi'' to Po. Rejuvenated, Po uses his now-augmented ''chi'' to destroy Kai.

With Kai gone, the kung fu masters have their ''chi'' restored. In the Spirit Realm, Oogway reveals that he sent Li a cosmic message explaining where to find Po. Oogway also reveals why he chose Po as the Dragon Warrior—as a panda, Po had the potential to become a master of both kung fu and ''chi.'' Oogway names Po his successor as Grand Master, and gives Po his mystic staff, which Po uses to return to the Mortal Realm. After reuniting with the others, Po takes on his new role at the restored Jade Palace, where all the pandas and the residents of the Valley of Peace learn kung fu and ''chi''.

