Norm, a polar bear, is the son of the King of the Arctic. In his youth, he realizes his ability to speak to humans, a trait shared only by his grandfather. Because of this, he is made an outcast from the other animals, only being accepted by Socrates, a wise seagull, and Elizabeth, a female polar bear whom Norm is in love with.

Years later, Norm's grandfather has become the world's most famous polar bear and human tourists are filling the Arctic. Socrates shows Norm and three Arctic lemmings a luxury condo that has been installed on the ice. Inside this condo is Vera, a representative for wealthy developer Mr. Greene. After Norm saves Vera from an avalanche, she tells him to find an actor to play a polar bear for their campaign. Norm denies this, but soon falls in love with Vera much to the jealousy of the lemmings. When his grandfather embarrasses him in front of the sea lions, Norm chases a boy named Pedro who then discovers Norm. But just before Pedro and Norm could get together, Norm is tranquilized and taken away from the Arctic leaving Pedro saddened about what happened and the Lemmings are also taken as well much to the horror of his grandfather.

The next morning, they wake up in New York City. Norm freaks out by this, but discovers Vera who has come to New York City as well. The Lemmings discover a filming Studio and they go in. However a man wearing some white glasses tries to attack Norm by struggling and strangling him in ropes. Norm manages to regain his strength and takes off the white glasses and is shocked by discovering that the disguise was Pedro. After hearing that Pedro works at the filming Studio, the two become friends and Norm apologizes for chasing him.

In the city, Norm pretends to be an actor and auditions for Pedro's commercial and is taken to dinner by Vera. The two celebrate and are succeeded by all of the hosts. During a public incident in the restaurant, Norm subdues Pedro gaining the attention of the media and heightening for approval ratings. Pedro decides to hire Norm as his mascot.

Before going on a television show, Norm meets Vera's daughter Olympia, who tells Norm to raise Greene's approval ratings and then speak out against him to save the Arctic. Norm's popularity heightens the approval ratings, but Pedro struggles to make a commercial Norm dreams of by playing recorded dialogue stating that Norm supports Greene's developments.

While filming about Norm's entire life, the lemmings go wild during the show breaking the camera and knocking out the camera woman. Pedro is fired from his job and is locked out before he could eventually apologize. Norm then has an argument with his grandfather about disobeying him and runs away. He then goes hungry and tries to get chili dogs, but is chased by the chilidog man. Meanwhile his grandfather is heartbroken and decides to go apologize to Norm, but he is captured by the animal control thinking he is a beast. Norm notices this and tries to rescue him, but fails.

Defeated, Norm is comforted by Vera and Olympia, who reveals that Greene is developing more homes to install in the Arctic. Norm and the lemmings discover that Greene is bribing a high-ranking member of the Polar Council, and exposes this to Pablo, one of Greene's investors. Vera resigns her position and is hired by Pablo, while Norm and the lemmings chase the truck holding the houses.
 
The animal control sends the truck carrying Norm's grandfather, and Norm is captured as well. After being freed by the lemmings, Norm and his grandfather get to the boat carrying the houses to the Arctic, and they are able to detach the houses. The Lemmings and Pedro distract the animal control by pretending that another animal is on the loose. Just as they are about to succeed however, Norm is separated from Pedro and his grandfather.

Norm awakens in the Arctic and is reunited with the lemmings and the other animals. Because of his heroism, Norm is crowned the King of the Arctic, but not before his grandfather and Pedro arrives. Meanwhile, the filming Studio is rebuilt and Pedro is rehired and Vera and Olympia are happy with Pablo as their new boss, while Norm and Elizabeth are allowed in the city and have three children together.

