Cinderella is an ambitious young woman who dreams of establishing her shop, Dresses by Ella. After she catches the eye of Prince Robert in passing, he disguises himself as a commoner and sets out in hopes of meeting her. Robert finds Ella among the local market vendors, trying to sell one of her creations. After some playful banter, he buys her dress for triple the original price. Robert invites Ella to an upcoming ball, where, he promises, she can mingle with people from around the world who will want to buy her designs.

On the day of the ball, Ella's stepmother Vivian forbids her to attend, as Ella has already been promised in marriage to Thomas the vegetable merchant. Vivian throws ink on Ella's dress, ensuring that only her own daughters Malvolia and Narissa can attend. 

Though Ella's hopes are dashed, her fairy godparent, Fab G, comes to her aid. He uses magic to outfit her in a gown of her own design and a pair of glass shoes. Mice become footmen for a crate transformed into a carriage that takes Ella to the ball. There she meets visiting queen Tatiana, who offers to take Ella around the world as her personal dressmaker. She also meets Princess Gwen, Robert's sister, who is wearing the dress Ella sold him in the market. 

When Robert proposes to Ella, she demurs, explaining that marriage will put an end to her dressmaking dreams, which are finally within reach. Robert, whose own lifelong ambition has been to assume the throne, struggles with this answer. At the stroke of midnight, Ella leaves the ball after throwing her shoe at one of the royal attendants, who tries to catch her.

The next day, Vivian reveals her own bitter story, trying to make Ella understand that going off to pursue one's personal dreams is incompatible with love and marriage. Vivian sees the remaining glass slipper in Ella's room and realizes she is the mystery girl the prince has been seeking. Vivian tries to convince Ella to marry Robert, but when Ella refuses, Vivian gives her to Thomas.

With the help of Queen Beatrice, King Rowan accepts that Robert wishes to marry a commoner, giving him the glass slipper as he searches for Ella. 

Ella, having run away from Thomas, is reunited with Robert in a forest, where they profess their love for each other and share a kiss. The pair reach the market in time to show her designs to her benefactor, Tatiana, who accepts them and invites Ella to travel with her.

Robert introduces Ella to the king and queen, and informs them of their shared decision to travel the world. Though this nullifies his future ascension to the throne, Beatrice smiles as Rowan proudly names Gwen (who has repeatedly shown an interest and ability in affairs of state) first in line to the throne. Citizens of the kingdom gather to witness and celebrate as the royal family officially announce these developments.

