The film begins with the campaign of Ivan and the heroes, led by Finist - the Clear Falcon, who, being the strongest of the squad, makes fun of Vanya, who is deprived of heroic strength. After successfully capturing the monster, who turned out to be Kolobok , who was attacking village cattle, Ivan returns to his mansion, furnished with modern technology. He gets tired of life in the conditions of Ancient Rus', so with the help of a treasure sword, he often returns to modern Moscow, dreaming of one day moving there with Vasilisa for good. However, she does not approve of this idea.

Competitions are held in Belogorye to identify the best hero. All participants, except Finist, fail the obstacle course, and Ivan, tired of the jokes in his direction and Finist’s attempts to flirt with Vasilisa, decides to take part himself in order to wipe his opponent’s nose. Before this, he tries to cross to Moscow, but the power of the treasure dries up and the portal does not open. If Finist passed the obstacle course with the help of strength and dexterity, then Ivan successfully does this using ingenuity and resourcefulness. However, the triumph of the protagonist is interrupted by Varvara and Galina, who arrive at the holiday to take the treasure sword from Ilya. They bewitch the heroes and send living roots over the village, a battle ensues, and the villains gain the upper hand. However, the old team of heroes, along with Finist and Kolobok who joined them, manage to escape,

In parallel with the events, scenes from the past are shown. An orphan girl and a peasant woman who decided to help her prick their fingers on a witch's flower and find themselves under the power of some terrible creature. It is impossible to be cured - Baba Yaga, when a peasant woman brings a sick girl to her, advises her to be drowned. The girl doesn’t do this, but at night the same thing happens to her.

On the way, Baba Yaga says that she had previously seen magic similar to this. 1000 years ago, the good sorcerer Belogor lived in these lands, but, finding himself on the verge of death, he decided to become immortal, for this he forged a treasure sword. His student Mikula decided to take immortality for himself and for this, turning to evil, betrayed his teacher and killed him, becoming Koshchei the Immortal. However, the dark force did not kill Belogor. Offended by people who did not value him and by the student who betrayed him, he became an evil creature consisting of roots - Rogoleb. To fully return to life, he needed a treasure sword. To search for the sword, he began to turn people into his servants, but of all, only Galina and Varvara were able to survive. Yaga says that only Koschey knows how to defeat Rogoleb. However, the heroes first have to pull him out of the land of the dead. To get there the characters use a whale fish, which only a person with heroic strength can control, which again gives Finist the opportunity to show his superiority. Then Ivan steals Yaga’s magical power berry, which is capable of providing incredible power. By eating it, he pretends that he has finally acquired heroic strength.

Having got to the guard of the land of the dead, Vanya deceives him with cunning and gets there in order to pick up Koshchei, but there he meets not only him, but also his father, recently killed by Rogoleb. Having got out of the land of the dead, Koschey says that you can kill Rogoleb by cutting the stone under which he was once buried with a treasure chest. On the way back, Ivan continues to use up his supply of magic berries in order to constantly boast of his special power. On the way to Belogorye, Ivan admits to Vasilisa that the treasure has lost its magical power, then she offers to take a break. At a rest stop, magical properties return to a treasure trove stuck in the ground.

In the morning, the heroes are overtaken by Varvara and her army and inflict a mortal wound on Finist. Ivan runs out of amplifiers, and the heroes are forced to flee, leaving the sword to Varvara. Ivan quarrels with Vasilisa and, as a result of the collapse, he is left alone with Kolobok, while the rest rush to Belogorye to save Finist with the help of living water. Varvara stops obeying her mother and, having found the treasure sword, tries to fly away with it. Galina catches up with her daughter, knocks her over the forest and bewitches her, but the sword falls from a height into the forest, where Miracle Yudo finds it and brings it to Ivan.

Ivan, Kolobok and Chudo-Yudo go to battle. The others and the rescued Finist fight with them. Kolobok eats Varvara, who has taken the guise of an owl. Koschey remembers too late that if you cut a stone with a sword, Rogoleb will not die, but, on the contrary, will be freed. The former white sorcerer resurrects in the form of a monster from the roots, binds and buries Koshchei, Baba Yaga and everyone else alive in the ground. He is going to kill Ivan too.

Ivan mentally meets with his deceased father, where he decides what he lives for. Heroic strength awakens in him, and together with Finist and Kolobok he fights Rogoleb, whose strength comes from the ground on which he stands. Ivan cuts space with a sword and sends the monster to modern Moscow, where instead of earth there is asphalt and concrete everywhere. The evil sorcerer Rogoleb dies, and Ivan’s buried friends are freed. Svetozar drives away and pursues Galina, and Ivan proposes to Vasilisa.

Post-credit scenes:

• Galina, asking the Great Darkness for help, plunges into a black lake to receive evil power.

• Many years ago, Ilya Muromets lived with his wife Galya. It turns out that this is the same girl whom Rogoleb bewitched along with the girl, and, concurrently, the named mother of Varvara and the biological mother of Ivan. Then comes a teaser hinting at a sequel .

