Mike Fallon is an assassin who specializes in disguising his kills as accidents, and he is a regular at an assassins' pub called Oasis, where a retired Big Ray is the bartender. Fellow regulars include Carnage Cliff, who kills his victims with an axe; Poison Pete; Mick and Mac, military veterans; Finnicky Fred, who invents and sells unorthodox weapons; and Jane the Ripper, an expert swordswoman. After killing an accountant named Archie Rudd, Mike gets a call from Milton, who assigns the assassins their missions. Milton asks Mike to receive his payment for the kill in an alleyway, but Mike is attacked by an amateur assassin, whom he kills easily. 

Mike accuses Milton of setting him up, but Milton denies this. Mike learns that his ex-girlfriend Beth has been murdered in a botched burglary and was pregnant with his child. Hearing that the alleged perpetrators had overdosed immediately afterwards, Mike becomes suspicious and steals the police report, where he deduces that Mick and Mac were responsible, as they specialize in disguising assassinations as random street crimes. Mike accuses Mick and Mac, and they confess to killing Beth, but deny knowledge of their client's identity. Enraged, Mike fights and defeats them, and Big Ray reminds Mike never to get emotionally involved in his line of work. 

Mike goes to Beth's apartment and asks her girlfriend Charlie whether Beth's environmentalist activities made her enemies. They argue until Cliff breaks in and attacks Charlie. Mike inadvertently kills Cliff, tracks down Milton, and tortures him to reveal who ordered the hit on Beth, a man named Leonard Kent. Big Ray reluctantly orders a hit on Mike for killing Cliff. Years earlier, 15-year-old Mike worked as a paperboy and was bullied every day on his route. While hiding from his bullies, Mike noticed a man mysteriously walking away from a house that explodes later. After recording and spying on him for weeks, Mike confronts the man and blackmails him to teach him to become an assassin. Big Ray takes him as an apprentice and has him kill the bullies's leader as his first kill. Ray has photographs incriminating Mike in the murder, and warns Mike to never betray him. Ray teaches Mike what he needs to be a professional assassin and becomes a father figure to Mike. 

Charlie reveals that Beth had collected information on Pankot Petroleum, a corrupt Indian oil company, provided by Archie Rudd. Mike confronts Kent, who turns over a recording of another man ordering him to have Beth killed. Suddenly, Mick and Mac arrive and kill Kent, where Mac is killed in friendly fire and Mike bludgeons Mick with a fire extinguisher. 

Pete ambushes Mike outside the building, but he kills him easily. Mike spares Fred by knocking him out and goes to the house of Kent's employer and an oil tycoon Atal Zim, where he kills Jane with her own katana and rejects Zim's bribery attempts and decapitates him. 

Back at the Oasis, Mike confronts Milton and plays the rest of Kent's recording, revealing that Milton had ordered to kill Mike in the alleyway and assigned Mick, Mac, and Cliff to eliminate all loose ends. Enraged, Big Ray assaults Milton and Mike offers him a band-aid that Fred had developed for poisoning. Milton applies the bandage and slowly dies. Big Ray allows Mike to leave, but warns him to never return to Oasis. Mike leaves and vows to protect the city as a vigilante.

