Trauma surgeon Paul Kersey lives with his wife, Lucy, and daughter, Jordan, in Chicago. When the family visits a restaurant with Paul's brother Frank, Miguel the valet secretly copies their address after hearing that they plan to stay out. However, Paul is suddenly called to the hospital, and Jordan and Lucy return home just as three armed criminals break in, leading to Lucy and Jordan being shot when they try to fight back. Lucy is killed and Jordan survives but is left in a coma.

Paul becomes frustrated with the lack of police progress on the case, contemplating purchasing a firearm. When a gang member is brought to the hospital and his gun falls out, Paul secretly takes it and practices shooting. He later uses it to stop a carjacking, injuring his left hand in the process. A captured video of the carjacking goes viral, earning Paul the nickname "Grim Reaper". After treating a boy who was attacked for refusing to sell drugs for a dealer calling himself the "Ice Cream Man", Paul guns him down in broad daylight.

News reports consistently demonstrate divided opinions of support and condemnation of Paul's developing war against violent criminals. Later on at Paul's hospital, Paul recognizes a dying Miguel on his operating table wearing a watch stolen from his home. Paul hacks into Miguel's phone, leading him to a liquor store which fences stolen goods. The owner, Ponytail, recognizes Paul and messages another criminal, Fish. Fish sneaks in and accidentally kills Ponytail while trying to shoot Paul. Fish identifies the second member of the group, Joe, before Paul kills him. The cops visit Paul to discuss the case; afterwards, he destroys the phones to cover his tracks. Finding Joe at an auto body shop, he tortures him. Joe divulges that the third robber, Knox, murdered Lucy, before Paul kills him.

Knox calls Paul, arranging to meet in a nightclub bathroom where they exchange fire and wound each other. Paul gets away while Knox goes to the police and gives them a physical description of Paul. Arriving home, Paul is confronted by Frank, who then answers the front door and is questioned by the detectives of his brother's whereabouts. During the intervention, the hospital calls to tell Paul that Jordan has regained consciousness.

A week later, Paul leaves the hospital with Jordan and legally buys weapons to defend his family. As Knox cases his house for an ambush, Paul glimpses a man running across the lawn and orders Jordan to hide and call the police. After killing Knox's men, Paul is shot and wounded by Knox, but manages to pull out a hidden rifle and kills him. The police arrive and accept Paul's story after he hints that he is done with vigilantism.

Months later, Paul drops off Jordan at New York University. Spotting a man stealing a bag from a bellhop, he calls out and points a finger gun at him.

