The U.S. {{sclass|Los Angeles|submarine}} USS ''Tampa Bay'' vanishes while shadowing the Russian {{sclass2|Akula|submarine|1}} ''Konek'' in the Arctic. Rear Admiral John Fisk sends the {{sclass|Virginia|submarine}} {{USS|Arkansas|SSN-800|6}}, under the command of newly promoted and unorthodox Commander Joe Glass, to investigate.

At the same time, a Navy SEAL team under the command of Lieutenant Bill Beaman is sent to discreetly observe a Russian naval base in Polyarny, Murmansk Oblast, but their mission is jeopardized when Martinelli, the team's new designated marksman recruit, is injured during the HALO drop. At the base, they witness defense minister, Admiral of the Fleet Dmitriy Durov, conducting a coup d'état and taking Russian president Nikolai Zakarin prisoner, swiftly realizing that Durov intends to trigger a war. Their location is almost discovered by the Russians during a radio intercept check, but the SEALs manage to hide away undetected.  Martinelli is shot in the leg by a Russian officer firing blindly at their hidden location, forcing the team to leave him behind.

Meanwhile, ''Arkansas'' discovers the destroyed ''Tampa Bay'' with all onboard lost, and also finds the sunken Russian submarine ''Konek'' damaged in a manner that suggests internal sabotage rather than external attack. They are attacked by another Russian Akula submarine, ''Volkov'', that had been hiding under an iceberg and realize it previously torpedoed ''Tampa Bay'' in an unprovoked manner. They are able to destroy the ambusher and rescue Russian survivors from ''Konek'', including its commanding officer, Captain 2nd rank Sergei Andropov.

The U.S. government learns about the coup. Admiral Charles Donnegan recommends preparing for war, while Fisk suggests that ''Arkansas'' be sent to rendezvous with Beaman's team after they rescue Zakarin. Glass manages to convince the reluctant Andropov to help, and his crew must be persuaded to accept Andropov's presence and to trust him. With Andropov's knowledge of the challenging underwater topography and the minefield protecting the base, Glass navigates ''Arkansas'' near the base undetected. Meanwhile, Beaman's team rescue Russian Presidential Security Service Agent Oleg, who was previously shot by Durov's men when he was protecting Zakarin. Together they infiltrate the base and succeed in retrieving President Zakarin, but lose Oleg, and two teammates, Devin Hall and Matt Johnstone, in the process. With Martinelli providing sniper cover fire, Beaman delivers the injured president to ''Arkansas''{{'}}s deep-submergence rescue vehicle, then goes back alone for Martinelli, saving him just as he is about to be executed.

As the U.S. and Russian fleets prepare for battle, ''Arkansas'' sustains further damage when it is attacked by Andropov's old ship, RFS ''Yevchenko'', a heavily-armed destroyer now commanded by Captain Vlade Sutrev, a member of Durov's conspiracy. Andropov is, however, able to communicate a message to the ''Yevchenko'' that President Zakarin is aboard the submarine. When Durov orders his forces at the base to fire missiles at the surfaced ''Arkansas'', Glass refuses to take action, realizing that firing back could start the war that he is trying to stop. In the last seconds, Andropov's old crew defy orders and destroy the incoming missiles with their close-in weapon system before they can strike the ''Arkansas'', and subsequently destroy the naval base headquarters with their missiles, killing Durov. With the war averted, Glass docks ''Arkansas'' to the Russian naval base to return Zakarin and Andropov's surviving crew to their country. ''Arkansas'' picks up Beaman and Martinelli, and travels back to the U.S. with a Russian Navy escort.

