Lord Robin of Loxley, an aristocrat and an English longbow master, lives in Nottingham and enjoys a good life with his lover Marian, before he is drafted by the corrupt Sheriff of Nottingham to fight in the Third Crusade against the Saracens.

After four years away from England, Robin becomes disillusioned with the Crusades when he fails to prevent his commander, Guy of Gisbourne, from executing unarmed prisoners, including a teenage boy, despite the pleading of the boy's father, which prompts Gisbourne to send Robin back home under accusations of treasonous conduct.

When he returns to Nottingham, Robin learns from his old friend Friar Tuck that the Sheriff had him officially declared dead two years prior in order to seize his land and wealth to continue funding the war effort at the behest of the corrupt Cardinal Franklin, exiling the citizens from the city and into the coal mine town across the river.

Investigating "the Slags", Robin witnesses the commoners planning to rise against the government that oppresses and exploits them and learns that Marian is now involved with their aspiring leader, Will Tillman. Robin is prevented from making contact with her by the prisoner whose son he tried to save. The man then introduces himself as Yahya — which he says can be translated to "John" — and proposes that he and Robin work to end the war by stealing back the money taken from the people to fund the church's conflict. Marian seeks Robin upon learning that he is alive, but he's advised by John not to tell her of his plans for her own protection.

Through a grueling training regimen in his now-decrepit manor, Robin greatly expands-upon and improves his skills in archery and combat and begins stealing the riches that the Sheriff has extorted from the townspeople, earning the nickname "The Hood", while concealing his activities by masquerading as a frivolous playboy-Lord who supports the Sheriff's regime.

During a party in the Cardinal's honor attended by Robin, Marian and Will, Marian and Robin discover the war is a ploy of the church, which is also funding the Saracen army, to defeat the king and claim total power after his death. Gisbourne and his men raid the Slags at the Sheriff's behest to find the Hood.

Marian attempts to intervene despite Will's objections and crosses paths with the Hood, whom she discovers is Robin by recognizing his voice. John is captured by Gisbourne and tortured by the Sheriff but refuses to reveal the Hood's identity. When the Sheriff uses John's faith against him, he threatens him with the promise that his eyes and face will soon be the last he sees.

Robin reveals himself to the commoners at Marian's urging and is embraced as their leader, upsetting Will. Will leads a riot to distract the Sheriff's men while Robin intercepts a caravan transporting the Sheriff's fortune out of Nottingham, due to be delivered to the Saracen army. Robin then leads the townspeople in a battle against the Sheriff and his corrupt forces. During the confrontation, Robin shares a kiss with Marian, which is witnessed by Will, moments before he is horribly scarred by a Molotov cocktail. Angered by Marian's love for Robin, he abandons her and the revolution.

When the tide of the battle begins turning in the Sheriff's favor, Robin surrenders to avoid further bloodshed and is taken to the Sheriff's castle to be executed; one of the guards is actually John who previously escaped his cell, and he finally claims revenge on the Sheriff by hanging him by the chain on a massive censer burner and left dangling high on up from roof of the cathedral. Robin and John flee to reunite with Marian and the townspeople who assisted them, taking refuge as outlaws in Sherwood Forest, sharing out their reclaimed loot.

Meanwhile, the Cardinal approaches a vengeful Will and offers him the chance to claim the power vacuum in Nottingham if he is loyal to the church. Will is appointed the new sheriff and brands Robin and his followers criminals. Robin defiantly challenges Will to come after him with a well placed arrow through the wanted poster Will is holding up and displaying to the townspeople.

