The film opens with Singapore apparently suffering a massive invasion, with iconic Singaporean landmarks{{efn|Such as the Merlion and the Esplanade}} attacked and numerous civilian casualties. It is later revealed that the war is the fictitious setting of a war-based role-playing game played by Ken Chow (Joshua Tan), a rich and spoiled teenager reluctant to be conscripted into National Service (NS). Ken planned to study abroad with his girlfriend Amy (Qiu Qiu), but is prevented from doing so by his upcoming compulsory military service. After being chided by Amy for his childishness, Ken vents his anger on a nearby rubbish bin, only to be apprehended by two nearby policemen to Amy's embarrassment and dismay.

After he is driven home by his father (Richard Low), Ken confides to his parents about his fears of NS. His overprotective mother (Irene Ang) decides to help him think of ways to defer his service, but fails. The Chow family sadly sends off Ken on the day of his recruitment. Thereafter, Ken and some other recruits are assigned to ''Ninja Company'' (Platoon 2, Section 2), sent to their bunk and then introduced to their Platoon Sergeant (Tosh Zhang). Whilst queueing up for the mandatory haircut, Ken meets some of his fellow recruits - "Lobang", (Wang Weiliang) a charismatic Ah Beng who's quick to make friends, Aloysius Jin Sia-lan, (Maxi Lim) an extremely educated fellow who intends to become an army officer and "I.P. Man", (Noah Yap) an Ah Beng scared of his girlfriend Mayoki (Sherraine Law) dumping him for being too busy serving NS. Most of the recruits are shown to make simple and goofy mistakes in their initial training.

After two weeks of training, Ken and the other recruits are allowed to book out for the first time.{{efn|Lingo meaning that the recruits are allowed to leave the camp for a weekend break}} A lavish party is thrown by his family to celebrate Ken's return, but his mood is ruined when he is shown a photo of his girlfriend with another man. Ken angrily confronts her and demands that they meet, which she does not initially agree to. She later admits that she has fallen for another man and dumps Ken at a highway. Determined to regain her love, Ken devises a plan to escape from Pulau Tekong as he feels that she is merely testing him. Whilst undergoing military exercises in hot weather, Ken stops drinking water in an attempt to force a heat injury, for which he would be sent home for ten days; he takes the extra measure of sleeping under a ceiling fan after dousing himself in cold water. His condition rapidly deteriorates and he is hospitalised after collapsing during training. Ken's father is alerted of his son's critical condition while in a company meeting. He quickly drives off to the hospital, but the sheer shock and strain causes him to have a stroke while driving and violently collide with another vehicle.

Ken wakes up in a hospital, surrounded by his two sisters. He realises that his foolish actions have caused problems for many people and cannot bear to face his father, who has survived the car crash and is recuperating in another ward in the same hospital. Awakened to reality, Ken is finally fit enough to go back to training. The film ends at this junction, and snippets of the next part are shown.

