Dan Geraldo, a reporter who needs a scoop, arrives in Chiquito, Palombia, but he does not think that he is going to discover anything significant, other than an interview with the Paya; the indigenous tribes of Palombia. However, accompanied by the eccentric and poor vet and tour guide, Pablito, whose children dislike him and deem him a liar, Dan is told the myth of the Marsupilami, a mythical and extremely rare creature that is believed to inhabit the Palombian rainforest and to be a real species.

Meanwhile, 80-year-old botanist Hermoso discovers a beautiful but rare orchid, in which the Marsupilami uses to cradle its eggs, manages to condense it into a liquid and drinks it, turning him to an early adult age. With the help of Caporal, a Palombian Army officer, he performs a coup d'état and imprisons General Pochero, the current dictator with a love for Celine Dion, while he plans to capture the Marsupilami, which had earlier stolen Hermoso's samples and is planned to be trained to take more orchids for Hermoso to stay young.

Dan and Pablito, after tracking in the jungle, are captured by the Paya. In their temple, they meet the beautiful Queen Paya, who gives a prophecy of the Marsupilami (seen as the Guardian of the Jungle) being threatened by "the man with two faces". They are released, but after Dan insults Pablito and reveals that he isn't paying him, the two get into an argument and separate.

Pablito soon meets the Marsupilami and discovers that it had a mate and a nest of eggs. Suddenly, the nest is torn down by the Palombian soldiers and the Marsupilami is struck by a tranquilizer dart by Caporal. Hermoso, who has given himself the title General, finds more orchids, but also discovers the eggs. Pablito tries to stop them, but Dan bumps into him and they are both knocked out. He places both in an incubator at his presidential palace and gives the Marsupilami to Caporal, seeing no use for it anymore.

Back in prison, the two find General Pochero, who manages to give in and escapes using a secret exit, arriving at the palace. Because Pochero enjoys hearing Celine Dion's "I'm Alive", he disguises himself as a woman, using the costumes of his mannequins, and distracts the Palombian soldiers, giving Pablito and Dan the chance to steal the orchids, eggs and a limousine before returning to Chiquito. Caporal is knocked out by the Marsupilami and it escapes after the eggs. Hermoso discovers that the orchids and eggs were stolen, and furiously takes off in a military jeep after the trio.

Dan makes it to TV Palombia, and begins the show by explaining the Marsupilami's existence. Pablito comes to his aid, after his video tape is missing, but realizes that he had accidentally erased the video; the Marsupilami arrives to take its eggs, revealing itself on TV. Suddenly, Hermoso runs through the room with the jeep and nearly kills the Marsupilami for its eggs, but the potion wears off and Hermoso shifts to an infant after drinking too much serum to regain his youth. Pablito is forgiven by his children, and the Marsupilami is securely returned to its home in the jungle, with the now-hatched babies with its new parents.

