In 1985, eight-year-old John Bennett is a friendless only child living in Norwood, Massachusetts, a suburb of Boston, who wishes for his new Christmas gift, a jumbo teddy bear named Ted, to come to life and become his best friend. The wish coincides with a shooting star and comes true. Word spreads and Ted briefly becomes a celebrity.

27 years later, John, now 35, and Ted are still living together in an apartment in Boston with John's girlfriend, Lori Collins, and are still staunch companions enjoying a hedonistic life. As John and Lori's four-year anniversary approaches, Lori hopes to marry John, but feels they can not move forward in life with Ted around. John is hesitant about making Ted leave, but he is persuaded to act when they find Ted at home with a group of prostitutes, with one defecating on the floor, after their anniversary dinner.

John finds Ted his own apartment and a job at a grocery store, where Ted begins dating his co-worker, Tami-Lynn. Lori learns that John has been skipping work, using her as an excuse, to reluctantly continue spend time with Ted. John and Lori are invited to a party put on by Lori's womanizing manager, Rex. However, Ted lures John away to a party at his apartment with the pressured offer to meet Sam J. Jones, the star of their favorite film, ''Flash Gordon''. John intends to stay only a few minutes, but gets caught up in the occasion. Lori finds John there and kicks him out of the apartment, breaking up with him. A furious John blames Ted for ruining his relationship with Lori and disowns him. 

John and Ted confront each other about their ruined friendship, but after a violent brawl in John's hotel room (resulting in John being crushed by a television set), the two reconcile. To repair John's relationship with Lori, Ted arranges for an old lover of his, and singer Norah Jones, to help by having John express his love for Lori with a song during Norah's concert that Lori and Rex attend on a date together. He does an off-key rendition of the ''Octopussy'' theme song, "All Time High", by Rita Coolidge and is booed offstage, though Lori is touched by the attempt. Ted confesses to Lori his role in John's relapse and offers to leave them alone forever if she talks to John. 

Lori is persuaded, but Ted is kidnapped by Donny, a mentally unstable stalker who idolized Ted as a child. Donny plans to make Ted into his brutish son Robert's new toy. Ted manages to reach a phone to contact John, but is immediately recaptured by Donny and Robert. Realizing that Ted is in danger, John and Lori locate Donny's residence and track him to rescue Ted. They end up chasing them, leading the chase to Fenway Park, where John punches Robert, knocking him out, but during the chase, Donny rips Ted in half and he falls onto the field. Two police cars arrive, forcing Donny to flee. John and Lori gather Ted's stuffing and Ted relays his wish that John be happy with Lori, before the magic in Ted fades away, making him a normal teddy bear again.

Unwilling to lose Ted, a distraught John and Lori rush back to her apartment and unsuccessfully attempt to repair Ted. Feeling sad about her part in the incident, Lori makes a wish on a shooting star while John is asleep. The next morning, Ted is revived as a result of the wish and reunites with John and Lori, encouraging them to resume their relationship. John then finally proposes to Lori and she accepts. Sometime later, John and Lori are married (with Sam Jones as the presiding minister), and Ted comfortably accepts having a life of his own, as he and Tami-Lynn continue their relationship. 

The narrator of the film provides the following; Sam Jones attempts to restart his career and moves into a studio apartment with Brandon Routh (who starred in the "god-awful Superman movie"). Rex gives up his pursuit of Lori, falls into a deep depression, and dies of Lou Gehrig's disease. Donny is arrested by the Boston Police Department for kidnapping Ted, but the charges are dropped because of how ridiculous the situation sounded. Robert hires a personal trainer, loses a significant amount of weight, and goes on to become Taylor Lautner.

