Medical student Paula Henning wins a place in a summer course at the University of Heidelberg, where her grandfather had been a renowned professor. During one of her classes on anatomy, the body of David, a young man whom Paula encountered on her train to Heidelberg, turns up on her dissection table. Paula's instructor, Professor Grombek, humiliates her by daring her to dissect the heart. Paula finds that David's body bears strange incisions, and decides to investigate the mysterious circumstances surrounding his death. As she proceeds to cut a sample for an independent test, she is intrigued to find a triple "A" mark near David's ankle. She is then startled by the school's mortuary attendant, who wants to know if Professor Grombek is aware of her acts.

Paula finds clues pointing to an ancient secret society, the Anti-Hippocratic Society, which performs gruesome experiments on living people who they deem undesirable. Paula also comes across research about the rituals that they perform on transgressors of their rules, or those who inquire too much. One night, Paula sits on her bed and realizes it has been soaked in blood, with candles lit underneath, as a sign of warning from the Society. She then attacks a figure that enters her room, but it turns out to be her friend Hein, who is seeking consolation over his recent breakup from his girlfriend Gretchen, who has since started seeing Phil, another student. While they talk, Casper, Paula's romantic interest, stops by and is upset that she is not alone and storms off. Hein leaves, apparently more at peace.

As Gretchen and Phil prepare to have sex in one of the morgue halls, Hein murders Phil in a jealous rage. He then injects Gretchen with poison, telling her that he will preserve her body. He is so absorbed in the work that he falls asleep without having disposed of Phil’s body. Hein hides it in the morgue and removes the head to prevent identification. When Paula tries to share her findings about the Society with Hein the next day, he menacingly tells her it's dangerous to know too much. Grombek reveals that her grandfather was a member, and that the drug he became famous for developing was the result of his experiments in Nazi concentration camps. She flees to the hospital to confront her grandfather, but is told that he has died.

At the assembly of the Society, Hein expresses no remorse for the murders and defiantly accepts their punishment, slashing himself three times in the face. Grombek takes responsibility for the killings and leaves to call the authorities to arrest Hein. Later, while Paula destroys the diplomas granted to her grandfather, a crazed Hein kills Grombek in his house. Paula gets back to the school but is trapped by Hein and his accomplice, Ludwig. While they are preparing her for preservation, her bindings are partially cut by Casper. Paula gets loose, poisons Ludwig, and runs away until Hein strikes a high voltage cable and dies. Casper and Paula then escape together.

Halfway through the end credits, a sequence shows two of Paula's classmates praising Hein's abilities in dissection and preservation, discussing Grombek's imminent replacement, and how in their respective practices they will keep a low profile while experimenting for the Anti-Hippocratic Society.

