Eight years after taking down Fouchet{{efn|as depicted in Bad Boys (1995 film).}}, Miami PD detectives Mike Lowrey and Marcus Burnett are investigating the flow of ecstasy into Miami. They infiltrate a Klan meeting held in the marshland outside of Miami only to discover that they are, in fact, buyers and not distributors of the ecstasy. After a radio malfunction leads to a delayed arrival of Miami Police's Tactical Narcotics Team (TNT), Mike and Marcus end up in a shootout with the Klansmen, with Marcus accidentally sustaining a gunshot wound to the buttocks from Mike.

These antics lead Marcus to re-evaluate whether he should remain partners with Mike, who is secretly dating Syd, Marcus' younger sister. Unbeknownst to both Marcus and Mike, Syd is working undercover for the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) as a money launderer to a branch of the Russian Mafia operating in Miami's drug trade. The Russians, in turn, are the main distributors of ecstasy for Cuban drug lord Hector Juan Carlos "Johnny" Tapia. After laundering a large sum of money for the Russians, Syd is intercepted by a Haitian Zoe Pound gang while she is transporting the money. Mike and Marcus, working on a tip from an informant, had been following the Haitians when the latter made their move, leading to an extensive gun battle and car chase through Miami that resulted in significant collateral damage. Mike and Marcus were reprimanded by Captain Howard, who was further miffed to find out the DEA was running an investigation in Miami without consulting him first.

Mike and Marcus track down the Haitians, interrogate the leader, and learn from one of the Haitian's video cameras that Tapia is using a local mortuary as a front for his operations. To gain more intel, Mike and Marcus pose as pest exterminators responding to a rat infestation at Tapia's Miami residence. Meanwhile, Tapia is meeting with his Russian business associates Alexei and Josef. While he discusses his business with Alexei, Tapia has Josef butchered in his kitchen and places the remains in a tortilla bin as a threat to Alexei to sign over all of his Miami night clubs where he distributes ecstasy. Mike discovers some of Josef's remains in the kitchen where he was dismembered, smuggling a pinky finger for later identification. With the Russians removed from the equation, Tapia begins a mixed business-personal relationship with Syd wherein he intends for her to launder all of the money for his operation.

Later, Mike and Marcus infiltrate Tapia's mortuary. Inside they discover that Tapia is using cadavers and coffins to smuggle drugs and money in and out of the country. The evidence is sufficient for Captain Howard to authorize a raid on both Tapia's residence and the mortuary in collaboration with the DEA and the U.S. Coast Guard. Nearly all of Tapia's drug supply and money are confiscated in the raid, though Tapia flees to Cuba with Syd as a hostage before he can be apprehended. Using her as a bargaining chip, Tapia demands the return of his money from Miami PD. Knowing that is impossible, Mike and Marcus arrange a covert operation to rescue Syd, forming a black-ops team with agents from the DEA, TNT, and Captain Howard's contacts from the CIA.

The team is inserted by the Coast Guard a few miles off the coast of Cuba, where they rendezvous with a fellow officer's brother, Tito, who is head of the local Alpha 66 underground resistance in Cuba. There, Tito assists the teams with weapons, a tunnel network, and an accurate mapping of Tapia's new mansion.

The team infiltrates Tapia's mansion, rescues Syd, and leaves a large explosive device that demolishes the mansion upon the team's exfiltration. Marcus and Mike, along with Syd and Tito steal a yellow Hummer H2 as they escape from Cuban military forces. Tapia survives and pursues Mike, Marcus, Syd, and Tito, ultimately ending up outside of Guantanamo Bay. Not recognized as U.S. Citizens, the Navy personnel on the base shoot at both Mike and Marcus as well as Tapia's vehicles, prompting them to stop just as they enter a live minefield. With only a couple of rounds remaining in their weapons, Marcus kills Tapia while the latter holds Mike at gunpoint. Tapia's body falls backward onto a mine which obliterates his corpse. 

Mike, Marcus, and Syd celebrate at a barbecue in Marcus' backyard with his family; Marcus has decided to remain partners with Mike.

