In 1943 Tibet, a young monk is told that he has fulfilled a series of prophecies that mark him as his master's successor. Forgoing his name, the monk is entrusted with guarding a scroll with the power to keep its owner powerful, young, and immune to injury. The monk is forced to flee when Nazi soldiers, led by Colonel Strucker, siege the temple. Sixty years later, the nameless monk encounters and begins tailing a young pickpocket named Kar, suspecting he may make for a suitable successor based on his selfless nature. During a violent run-in with a local gang, Kar falls for a roguish young woman named Jade.

The following day, Jade attends an exhibition at a human rights museum presided over by Strucker's granddaughter, Nina, who secretly and ruthlessly spearheads her grandfather's ongoing hunt for the scroll. Afterwards, Jade chances upon Kar being lectured by the monk and asks him to return her necklace, which he had stolen to earn her esteem. The meeting is interrupted when the monk is spotted by Nina's mercenaries. With Kar, the monk arrives at a laundromat that secretly houses a group of monks who provide him shelter, and the monk offers to train him. 

As Kar and the monk train in an abandoned warehouse, Nina's mercenaries come down on them in force. In the ensuing chase, Kar accidentally drops the scroll from the rooftop, where it is swiped by Nina; however, she later discovers the scroll is a fake. Angered, Nina visits Kar's home to track the pair down, murdering his employer. An ambitious monk then betrays the location of their hideout to Nina, forcing the pair to flee once again. The monk's allies are kidnapped and taken to Strucker's secret facility beneath the museum.

Seeking help, Kar and the monk visit Jade at her home, learning that she is the daughter of an imprisoned crime lord. The monk realizes that this fact has fulfilled the second prophecy. Suddenly, Nina and her men burst through Jade's windows in a surprise attack, knocking the monk out with a tranquilizer dart. Nina discovers that the scroll's true text is tattooed onto the monk's body and orders that he be taken alive. Jade surmises where the monk was taken and chooses to help rescue him, intent on making Nina pay for her crimes.

The monk awakens to Nina sensually undressing him and scanning his tattoos, compiling the scroll's text into her grandfather's computer. Strucker's reading is interrupted when Jade and Kar launch an explosive attack on the museum, killing most of Nina's men in the blast. Jade and Kar infiltrate the facility through an underground water main, where Kar is swept away by a sudden rush of water. Jade is intercepted in the tunnels by Nina, this time dressed in a tight military-style jumpsuit and concealing a sai. Despite Nina's initial advantage, Jade manages to incapacitate her with a kick to the leg, breaking her shin. Jade pulls the defeated Nina into a chokehold and snaps her neck, finishing her off for good.

Strucker regains his youth after reading from the scroll; however, he finds that the last verse is missing. Before Strucker can scan the monk's brain for it, Kar arrives and distracts him, allowing the monk to break free. While Jade works to free the other monks, the nameless monk fights Strucker alongside Kar, eventually sending him plummeting off the roof. The three reunite inside the museum and the power of the scroll transfers to Kar, as he has fulfilled the third prophecy. Strucker reappears and attempts to kill the three, but is killed himself by a falling statue. Kar is surprised to find Jade alive after seemingly being shot; like Kar, she also fulfilled the three prophecies, and the scroll's power transferred to her as well. The monk, now aged, meets with Kar and Jade the next day, giving each one half of the final verse, deeming them inseparable. The pair wish him a good vacation from his duties before departing to fulfill their new roles.

