At the Tromaville School for the Very Special, a criminal gang named the Diaper Mafia (who are literally thugs dressed as infants) attack and kill off most of the students until The Toxic Avenger ("Toxie" for short) shows up alongside his morbidly obese sidekick Lardass. They manage to murder the criminals in very gruesome fashions until the leader, Tex, reveals an explosive device that will blow the school up. Toxie randomly runs home quickly to impregnate his wife, Sarah, whilst Lardass eats the bomb and tries to drain it in his stomach by farting. But due to a Diaper Mafia member and a student lighting a cigarette, the school explodes, killing Lardass as Toxie returns and rescues the pregnant teacher and two students, Tito and Sweetie Honey.

The explosion ends up transporting Toxie and the students to Amortville, a mirror version of Tromaville in an alternate universe where the police shoot at Toxie who is picked up by Evil Kabukiman (an evil version of Sgt. Kabukiman) who helps him escape the police. Back in Tromaville, Amortville’s version of Toxie, The Noxious Offender (Noxie), appears from the explosion and immediately starts to kill off the citizens. Both supers are immensely confused by the surroundings. Toxie finds Tito and Sweetie Honey and ask them to stay where his home now isn’t. Noxie finds the Nazi Sergeant Kazinski to be an ally whilst Mayor Goldberg introduces new superheroes to Tromaville which includes Sgt. Kabukiman (who is now a pathetic has-been). Searching for answers, Toxie comes across a man named Pompey who, after being dragged along the back of a truck by rednecks, becomes a still-living head. He also finds the Amortville’s version of Lardass (named Chester) who is a scientist broke on the streets. Chester’s former wife, Claire, is Noxie’s lover whom Toxie offers to bring back to Chester but gets into a fight with Evil Kabukiman in the process. Noxie becomes Mayor of Tromaville after killing off Mayor Goldberg and starts to turn the place into Amortville again and also impregnates Sarah. Toxie wanders into the factory of an evil version of a superhero named Mad Cowboy where he finds Tito, Pompey and Sweetie Honey held captive. After a fight, Toxie throws the villain into a meat grinder and escapes with the three. 

The Tromaville Superheroes attempt to take down Noxie and Kazinski but are all killed except for Sgt. Kabukiman who ends up drunkenly wandering into Toxie’s home and accidentally impregnates a sleeping Sarah. Claire, who wandered off as Toxie was fighting Evil Kabukiman, finds Chester and the two become a couple again. Sarah sees her gynaecologist who tells her that she is pregnant with two babies from two entirely different fathers and fails to get an abortion. Toxie and Chester manage to find the solution to getting back to Tromaville: clicking red shoes together and saying “There’s no place like Tromaville” (an obvious reference to The Wizard of Oz). Tito, however, stays behind and dedicates himself to making Amortville safe with Pompey as his sidekick. Toxie and Sweetie Honey arrive in Tromaville to discover that Sarah is in labour. At the hospital, Toxie kills off the Nazi soldiers and Kazinski himself whilst getting to Sarah. He finds Sarah’s room with Noxie inside and the two fight as does their babies in Sarah’s uterus. After a long fight, Toxie kills Noxie (as does Toxie’s baby kills Noxie’s) by ripping his organs out. After dying, Melvin (the Amortville version of Melvin Ferd, Toxie’s true identity) emerges from Noxie’s stomach and attacks Toxie who throws him out the window into a barrel of toxic waste and vows to come back “if there’s a sequel” as he runs away in flames laughing (using footage from the first movie).

Sarah gives birth to her and Toxie’s child and also Sgt. Kabukiman’s after he accidentally impregnated her earlier causing Toxie to angrily chase after Sgt. Kabukiman as everyone else laughs. The movie ends with the narrator (Stan Lee) making a speech involving awareness to being randomly stuck in an evil alternate universe and saying the Toxic Avenger will be there while also asking the audience to “please recycle your bottles and cans”.

