{{long plot|date=February 2022}}
Arriving to a crime scene, officer Dan Margolies (Jeffrey Combs) investigates a brutal scene of several mutilated bodies. He is attacked by an assailant wearing metal gauntlets with long, claw-like blades. The assassin almost kills Margolies but stops after seeing a woman in the shadows. After taking him to a psychiatric hospital, Margolies meets Doctor Jade De Camp, who believes she can help the patient. De Camp observes the patient staring at a death metal CD after attempting to use musical therapy on him. She plays the CD, driving the patient into a rage but recovering his memory.

The assailant reveals his name to be John Jaspers (Mark Frost). John sold his soul to the mysterious M (as for Mephistopheles) (Andrew Divoff) in order to avenge the death of his girlfriend, Blue (Jennifer Rope), who was murdered by a gangster. M gives John the clawed gauntlets and warns him that he will regret their deal in the future. John, using his new weapons, kills the gangster and his men. However, John learns he now has become M's slave and cannot break the contract he signed in exchange for the gauntlets and power.

De Camp does not believe John's story and continues trying to treat him. Later, De Camp presents her findings to Margolies, who researches M and the secret society that he belongs to called The Hand. Back at the hospital, John is taken by M's henchmen who drug him and throw him in an empty grave. John is buried alive and De Camp is taken by M. John finds himself in Hell where he is attacked by a skeleton. After decapitating the skeleton and retrieving his gauntlets, John escapes the grave. A shadow of his body changing is seen on the overhead tombstone which has the inscribed name 'Faust'.

Before De Camp is taken away, John – now transformed into the devil Faust – arrives, killing the men and saving De Camp. A survivor from the attack returns to M's mansion to inform him of what happened, but is seduced and killed by M's wife Claire. De Camp returns home after talking with Margolies, who has gotten closer to finding out M's true motives and work with various people over the years. While home, De Camp finds out John is there and seeking her help to stop the bloodlust he feels. However, when she mentions police outside, John becomes angered and transforms into Faust upon realizing that the police are working for M.

Faust kills the police and chases after the fleeing De Camp. He corners her on a subway and begs her to come with him. The police chief, working for M, also arrives to take De Camp. Faust cuts the subway train in half and rescues De Camp from the police. Faust takes her to his old apartment where the two start to have sex, but stop when De Camp begins screaming. She tells John that she was raped as a child but cannot remember the man's face, instead only being able to remember smooth, amorphous features. The two embrace and rest. Back at M's mansion, the police chief interrupts M's meeting to reprimand him for not telling about John's power. Margolies, hiding in the house, witnesses M kill the chief. M discovers Margolies shortly after.

Margolies calls De Camp to meet at M's home. However, it is revealed that he has betrayed her and allied with M. M plans to use De Camp to lure John for a demonic ritual he intends to conduct. M is betrayed, however, when Claire has his doctor give him a poisoned syringe of medicine. M kills the doctor for his disloyalty before collapsing. Claire shoots M in the head with a shotgun and tortures De Camp in extreme sadomasochistic fashion. De Camp becomes corrupted, while M is revealed to still be alive and begins preparing for the ritual.

John returns to the bridge where he first met M and sees a vision of De Camp in danger. He rushes to her aid and crashes The Hand's ritual as Faust, but cannot hurt M because of their contract. Defeated, he turns back into John when the traumatized De Camp rejects him for M. M proceeds with the ritual, killing Claire by removing a snake from her stomach and letting it slither into Margolies' mouth. Margolies dies and a gate to Hell is opened. M rapes De Camp in order to humiliate John, but her childhood trauma snaps her back to full awareness and she is able to remember that it was her father who had assaulted her. M summons a demon from the gate to Hell which proceeds to burn all of his followers to death. De Camp knocks M unconscious and frees John, who kills the demon as Faust.

M tortures John, but De Camp offers her firstborn child to him in exchange for John's freedom from their contract and his soul returned. M agrees and burns the contract, but in doing so John loses his powers and his earlier injuries begin to take effect. De Camp then reveals to M that her childhood rape had left unable to conceive. Now free, John stands up and fatally stabs M, but succumbs to his wounds while De Camp mourns over his body.

