Former cellist Claire Spencer and her husband Norman, an accomplished scientist and professor, live a quiet life at their lakeside home in Vermont. Their relationship is strained, particularly after Claire's daughter, Caitlin, leaves for college. Claire notices their new neighbors, Mary and Warren Feur, have a volatile relationship and, after Mary is unseen for several days, suspects Warren may have killed her.

Claire believes she sees a woman's body in the lake, and senses an unseen presence in the house. A framed article about Norman falls off his desk and shatters, leading Claire to discover an odd key inside a vent. She finds her bathtub mysteriously filled, and sees another woman's reflection in the water. Confiding in a psychiatrist, Claire and her mystic friend, Jody, hold a failed séance. She finds the bathtub filled again with the message "You know" written on the steamy mirror, while her computer inexplicably types the initials "MEF".

Convinced she is haunted by Mary's ghost, Claire confronts Warren, but Mary is alive and well, explaining that she went to stay with her mother in Providence after a fight with Warren. On the back of Norman's article, Claire finds a story about a missing woman named Madison Elizabeth Frank — "MEF". She tracks down Madison's mother and visits her daughter’s bedroom, where she steals a lock of Madison's hair and notices a photo of her wearing an unusual necklace.

Performing a ritual from a book, Claire attempts to conjure Madison. Seemingly possessed by her spirit, she aggressively seduces Norman, shocking him by speaking as Madison until she drops the lock of hair. Becoming herself again, Claire recalls a repressed memory about Norman's affair with a student, Madison, which he admits happened during a rough patch in their marriage. Claire leaves to spend the night with Jody, who reveals that a year earlier, she saw Norman arguing with a woman at a café in Adamant, a nearby town.

Returning home, Claire finds Norman unconscious in the tub, which he assures her was an accident and not a suicide attempt. He tells her that an unstable Madison confronted him at home when he ended their affair, but denies killing her. Standing on the dock with Madison's hair, Claire is pulled into the lake by an unseen force, spotting a jewelry box matching Madison's necklace. Norman pulls her to safety, and together they burn the lock of hair.

Claire's suspicions return when Norman claims not to know the café in Adamant, where she sees the same necklace and jewelry box at a nearby shop. Recovering the box from the lake and unlocking it with the key from Norman's office, she finds Madison's necklace inside. She confronts Norman, who says that he came home to find Madison had killed herself; in desperation, he pushed her car into the lake with her body inside. Norman agrees to confess and calls the police, but Claire discovers he dialed 4-1-1 instead. He paralyzes her with halothane, admitting that he murdered Madison when she threatened to expose their affair to the dean.

Norman places Claire in the bathtub, filling it with water to stage her suicide. As he removes Madison's necklace from Claire's neck, her face contorts into Madison's corpse and he jerks back, smashing his head on the sink and knocking him unconscious. As the water level rises, Claire recovers enough to partially turn off the tap and dislodge the plug, barely surviving drowning. She flees in Norman's truck, but he climbs on and attacks her. They crash into the lake, dislodging Madison's car and her body while Norman tries to drown Claire. Madison grabs Norman, allowing Claire to escape as Norman drowns and Madison's ghost drifts away. Later that winter, Claire places a rose on Madison's grave.

