The film opens with a narration from the very beautiful but wicked enchantress, Clementianna, who insists that it is her story: she had married the widower king, who one day left to fight a great evil that had invaded the land, but he never returned. Clementianna becomes queen and rules in his absence, while confining her young stepdaughter, Princess Snow White, to the palace.

Ten years later, Snow White is now a young woman, who desires to explore the kingdom. She decides to sneak out. Walking through the forest, she meets the visiting Prince Andrew Alcott of Valencia, who has been robbed by a band of dwarfs; she and the prince are instantly smitten with each other. Snow White arrives in the town, and finds the townspeople are destitute due to Clementianna's heavy taxation.

Meanwhile, Clementianna is introduced to Alcott, is also smitten and decides to marry him for his wealth to solve the kingdom's financial troubles. She throws a ball to woo him. Unbeknownst to her, Snow White secretly attends, planning to ask Alcott to help her regain her throne and restore the kingdom. Clementianna notices her and Alcott dancing and orders her manservant, Brighton, to take the princess into the forest and feed her to the Beast. 

Snow White is left in the forest and manages to run away from the Beast, before collapsing at the dwarfs' hideout. The dwarfs take her in, and introduce themselves as Grimm, Butcher, Wolf, Napoleon, Half Pint, Grub, and Chuck. When Brighton collects more taxes levied by the queen to pay for her expensive parties, the dwarfs rob him. Snow White takes the money and returns it to the townspeople, crediting the dwarfs, whom the people hail as heroes.

Clementianna informs Alcott that Snow White is dead. When he hears the bandits have robbed Brighton, he goes after them. In the forest, he discovers that Snow White is alive and in league with the dwarfs, who have trained her in combat. Both believing each other to be in the wrong, Snow White and Alcott duel. He returns to the palace, defeated, and informs Clementianna that Snow White was the dwarfs leader and is alive. 

Clementianna enters her Mirror House to consult her reflection, the Mirror Queen. She has her temporarily turn Brighton into a cockroach, and requests a love potion to make Alcott fall in love with her. It turns out to be a 'puppy love' potion, and Alcott becomes devoted to her like a puppy. Under this potion, he agrees to marry her. Using dark magic, the queen attacks Snow White and the dwarfs with two giant marionettes, but Snow White defeats them by cutting their strings.

On the day of her wedding, Clementianna arrives to find that Snow White and the dwarfs have raided the party and abducted Alcott. For her inability to handle bandits and for lying about Snow White's death, the aristocrats demand for the queen be deposed. Back in the forest, Snow White breaks the spell on Alcott with true love's kiss.

Snow White encounters Clementianna, who sends the Beast after her. It manages to catch her, but it hesitates in killing her. Snow White sees the Beast wears a necklace with a moon charm on it similar to Clementianna's. She cuts the necklace off, breaking Clementianna’s spell, and restoring the Beast to its true form: Snow White’s father. Clementianna then ages rapidly, and the Mirror Queen explains that this is the price for using dark magic.

Grateful to Alcott for his assistance, the king agrees to let him marry Snow White. At their wedding, an old hag appears and offers Snow White an apple as a wedding gift. Snow White accepts it and is about to bite it, but then realizes the hag is Clementianna. She cuts a piece from the apple with her father's dagger and hands it to her. Clementianna accepts defeat, takes the apple, and disappears. 

The Mirror Queen affirms it was Snow White's story after all before the Mirror House shatters. Snow White, Prince Alcott, the King and the dwarfs live happily ever after.

