Marty is an alcoholic writer in Los Angeles stuck on his new screenplay, ''Seven Psychopaths''—he has the title, but not the titular characters. His best friend, Billy, is a struggling actor who makes a living kidnapping dogs and collecting rewards for their safe return. His partner-in-crime, Hans, is a religious man whose wife Myra has cancer. Billy wants to work with Marty as a screenwriting duo, but is too embarrassed to ask Marty directly.

Billy shows Marty a newspaper story about "The Jack of Diamonds Killer", who leaves jack of diamonds playing cards on his Mafia victims, and Marty agrees to use him as one of the seven psycopaths. Billy also tells Marty a story he heard from a friend about "The Quaker", who stalked his daughter's killer for decades to drive him to suicide, but Marty is so drunk that he believes it was his own idea, leaving Billy frustrated. He puts an ad in the paper inviting psychopaths to share their stories with Marty, and Zachariah Rigby tells them about being half of a serial killer duo (with Maggie, his now-ex-lover) who killed other serial killers: the Texarkana Moonlight Murderer, the Cleveland Torso Killer, and the Zodiac killer. However, Zachariah wants Marty to include his phone number in the credits in the hope that Maggie will see the movie and seek him out again. Marty agrees. He also comes up with a fourth psychopath: a former Viet Cong fighter who travels to the U.S., dressed as a priest, to enact revenge on the soldiers responsible for the Mỹ Lai massacre.

Billy is sleeping with Angela, gangster Charlie Costello's girlfriend, and he and Hans steal Bonny, Charlie's beloved Shih Tzu. Charlie's men, led by Paulo, track Hans to his hideout and threaten to kill him and Marty, but The Jack of Diamonds Killer arrives, kills Paulo's men, then leaves. Hans and Marty flee, but Charlie finds Myra at the hospital and kills her when she refuses to give up Hans. When Billy hears of Myra's death from Hans, he shoots Angela in retaliation. Charlie and Paulo break into Billy's house to discover dozens of packs of cards, and realize that Billy is The Jack of Diamonds Killer.

Marty, Billy, and Hans decide to hide out in the desert with Bonny. After Marty retells "his" Quaker story over dinner, Hans reveals that he is the real-life Quaker whom Billy originally heard the story from. Hans is impressed with Marty's screenplay draft, especially the Viet Cong fake-priest, but Marty—disillusioned with violence—admits that he would prefer to leave it unfinished. They pass the time discussing how to end the movie, with Billy suggesting a shootout where The Jack of Diamonds Killer dies a tragic hero.

While buying supplies, Marty and Hans see a headline that names Billy as The Jack of Diamonds Killer. Shaken, Marty gets drunk while Billy and Hans take peyote. When confronted, Billy says that he merely wanted to inspire Marty, but Marty rejects Billy; they must return Bonny and face the consequences to end the cycle of violence. Billy, determined to force his dramatic shootout ending, sets their car on fire and calls Charlie to reveal their location. However, during the argument Hans has a vision of Myra in a "grey place," leading him to doubt his belief in the afterlife. He ignores Marty's and Billy's reassurances that it was a peyote-induced hallucination and wanders into the desert. 

Charlie arrives alone, armed with only a flare gun. Billy shoots him, feeling cheated, and Marty—determined to prevent yet another death—drives Charlie to the nearest hospital. Meanwhile, Hans stumbles across Charlie's men, led by Paulo, at a nearby truck stop, but a patrol cruiser shows up and they cannot immediately grab Hans. Billy then realizes the flare gun's purpose and fires it into the air. Paulo and his men prepare to drive towards the signal, but Hans pretends to draw a weapon, causing Paulo to shoot him in front of the police and instigate a chase. 

Paulo's men intercept Marty with Charlie, who returns to face Billy for a stand-off. Charlie shoots Billy as the police arrive. The gangsters are arrested, but Bonny stays at the dying Billy's side. Marty finds Hans' body, and a tape recorder with a suggestion for how to end the Viet Cong fighter's story with hope: his revenge is revealed as the dying dream of the first Buddhist monk to self-immolate in peaceful protest of the Vietnam War.

Marty adopts Bonny and finishes the screenplay. After ''Seven Psychopaths'' is released, Zachariah calls and threatens Marty for not leaving a message to Maggie in the credits as promised. On hearing Marty's resigned acceptance of his fate, Zachariah realizes the experience of writing the movie has left him a changed man, and decides to spare him.

