Democratic Congressman Camden Brady, who has run unopposed for the 14th District in North Carolina is exposed when he has an affair with a supporter that is heard on a phone call, damaging his upcoming campaign for a fifth term. With eight weeks to go before the election, Glenn and Wade Motch, two corrupt businessmen persuade tour guide Martin Huggins to run as Camden's opposition as a Republican nominee. The Motch Brothers ultimately intend to use Martin to forward a profitable scheme with a Chinese company.

Campaign Manager Tim Wattley (also in the pay of the Motch Brothers) transforms Martin into a successful entrepreneur and family man, which pays off during his first debate with Camden and takes the viewers by storm with his resolve to bring back jobs to North Carolina. At a town hall debate, a fight breaks out between Camden and Huggins supporters after Huggins uses ''Rainbowland'', a story written by Camden as a child, to accuse him of being a Communist; Camden and Huggins also end up fighting, being unable to hear each other over the commotion but believing that they were insulting. Camden further damages his campaign when he accidentally punches a dog and a baby, on both occasions having intended to hit Huggins. In response, Camden runs a campaign portraying Martin as an Al Qaeda terrorist (based on Martin's facial hair). However, Camden's popularity recovers after a mishap at a snake handling ceremony results in him being hospitalized. Camden later realizes his son intends to use his father's campaign methods against his opponent for Class President, and realizes he is setting a bad example. Camden travels to Martin's home to make peace, but ends up getting drunk and is arrested for drunk driving when Martin, encouraged by Tim, reports him. Martin then airs another TV advertisement, with Camden's son addressing him as "dad". Furious, Camden seduces Martin's wife Mitzi and records them having sex before releasing it as a campaign ad. This forces his Campaign Manager Mitch Wilson to resign on principle, and prompts his wife to leave him and take their children with her, leaving Camden despondent about the coming election. Martin leaves Mitzi as a result of the ad, but gets revenge on Camden by shooting him during a hunting trip, causing his popularity to further increase. 

Martin meets with the Motch brothers soon afterwards, but learns of their "insourcing" plans with China; they intend to turn the 14th district into a factory complex and import Chinese workers in order to reduce shipping costs. Martin, realizing he has been used, rejects their support. The Motch brothers in turn defect to Camden's side, revitalizing his campaign and paying his wife to appear alongside him at campaign events to give the impression of reconciliation. Meanwhile, Martin reconciles with his wife and family, and desperately appeals to the voters by revealing the Motch Brothers' plans and promising to be completely honest (revealing several embarrassing secrets about himself in doing so). On election day, however, Camden wins due to the voting machines being rigged by the brothers. Camden gloats about his victory to Martin, who recalls to Camden that he was the Class President at their school, and had removed a dangerous slide that had scarred the both of them. Martin tells Camden that this greatly inspired him. Realizing what he has done and who he has become, Camden denounces his win and withdraws, with Martin winning by default. Martin and Camden become friends, with Camden being appointed Martin's chief of staff.

Six months later, the Motch brothers are called to appear before Congress after being exposed by Martin and Camden. The brothers point out that everything they have done is legal under ''Citizens United v. FEC'' but are arrested due to their association with Wattley, who is in fact an international fugitive.

