{{Long plot|date=October 2021}}
CIA agent and best friends Franklin "FDR" Foster and Tuck Hansen are deployed to Hong Kong to prevent international criminal Karl Heinrich from acquiring a weapon of mass destruction, but the mission goes awry, resulting in the death of Heinrich's brother, Jonas. Heinrich swears vengeance against them. Upon their return to the United States, their boss, Collins assigns them to desk duty for their protection.

Tuck is divorced with a young son, Joe. After attending one of Joe's karate classes, Tuck attempts to rekindle his connection to his family but is rebuffed by his ex-wife Katie. Tuck sees a commercial for online dating and signs up. He matches with Lauren Scott, a product-testing executive who is dealing with the recent engagement of her ex-boyfriend. Her best friend, Trish, enrolled her in the dating website. FDR insists on being Tuck's back-up for the date and hides nearby, but Tuck and Lauren hit it off.

FDR runs into Lauren at a video store and tries to flirt with her, but she ignores him. Intrigued, FDR gatecrashes one of Lauren's test groups and coerces her into going on a date with him. FDR and Tuck discover that they are seeing the same woman and decide not to tell her that they know each other, letting her instead come to a decision between them.

The date with FDR does not go well at the start, and Lauren storms out. After arguing with FDR, Lauren sees her ex-boyfriend and his fiancée approaching. Desperate, Lauren grabs FDR and kisses him. She lies to her ex that she and FDR are together as FDR plays along. FDR demands that Lauren explain what happened; they then talk seriously and hit it off. After dating both men a few times, Lauren feels guilty and gives herself a week to make up her mind.

Both men bug Lauren's phone so they can spy on her when she is on dates with the other one. They overhear her tell Trish that she is going to need to have sex with them both to decide which one is the right one. This leads to both men taking steps to ensure she does not sleep with the other. FDR discovers that Heinrich has arrived in town to kill them. He interrupts Tuck's date with Lauren to warn Tuck about Heinrich, but Tuck doesn't believe him. They engage in an extended fight, and Lauren discovers that they are best friends. She angrily leaves with Trish, but the women are kidnapped by Heinrich and his men, who are pursued by FDR and Tuck.

FDR and Tuck rescue Lauren and Trish after a car chase. On Lauren's advice, they shoot out the headlights on Heinrich's SUV, sending the car rolling towards them. With Lauren standing in the path of the SUV, FDR and Tuck, on opposite sides of the road, urge her to come to their side and she chooses FDR's side, while Heinrich dies when his car crashes. Lauren has decided to be with FDR, and Tuck makes amends with him. Later, Joe is at his karate lesson with Tuck when Katie comes to pick Joe up. Tuck and Katie re-introduce themselves to each other and she invites him out for a meal as a family.

Shortly thereafter, FDR and Tuck go on a mission. They are about to parachute out of a Chinook helicopter when FDR reveals that he will be marrying Lauren and asks Tuck to be his best man. He reveals that he had sex with Katie before she met Tuck but no longer feels guilty because Tuck had sex with Lauren. Tuck reveals that they did not go all the way and angrily tackles FDR out of the helicopter.

