Tim Heidecker and Eric Wareheim are two filmmakers who are given a record-setting $1 billion budget to make a movie starring Johnny Depp titled ''Bonjour, Diamond Jim'', based on a poem by "personal shopper and spiritual guru" Jim Joe Kelly. The funds are provided by the powerful Tommy Schlaaang and the Schlaaang Corporation. However, during production of the film the two waste all of their money on expensive makeovers, 10-course lunches, real diamonds for Diamond Jim's suit, and a $500,000 a week salary for Kelly, as well as accidentally hiring a professional Johnny Depp impersonator to star in the film instead of the real Johnny Depp. Ultimately, the finished film is only three minutes long. The Schlaaang executives, furious at having been delivered an unreleasable film, hold Tim and Eric personally accountable for paying back the one billion dollars they were trusted with, under threat that they will go to prison or be hunted down by the Schlaaang Corp. With their finances gone, Tim and Eric tearfully relieve Jim Joe Kelly of his services.

After a night of self-destructive partying, the pair see an advertisement in a nightclub bathroom for the sale of the S'Wallow Valley Mall, in which its owner Damien Weebs repeatedly claims that whoever buys and runs the mall will make one billion dollars in profit. Tim and Eric decide to reinvent themselves as businessmen, dubbing their newly founded company '''Dobis PR''', and depart Los Angeles to purchase the dilapidated mall from Weebs and renovate it, in the hopes that they will make back their billion-dollar debt. While trying to refurbish the mall, they must deal with vagrants such as a mentally ill man-child named Taquito, bizarre stores (such as Reggie's Used Toilet Paper Discount Warehouse), and a man-eating wolf that stalks the food court.

During their time at the S'Wallow Valley Mall, Tim and Eric also face many challenges, such as an angry shop owner named Allen Bishopman who "doesn't want anything to change", and the fact that Eric is in love with Katie, a woman who works at the mall (whom Eric also compulsively masturbates to). Because of this, Tim poisons Eric and ends up making love to Katie, whilst Eric goes to the Shrim Alternative Healing Center, run by Dr. Doone Struts to seek "spiritual healing", only to be placed in a bathtub which gets filled with diarrhea by Struts' sons as part of the "spiritual healing". After the event, Eric finds Tim sleeping with Katie and subsequently fights Tim. After the fight, Eric apologizes to Tim for starting the fight and understands why Tim made love to Katie.

Despite their best efforts, the newly reopened mall fails to generate one billion dollars in revenue. They are eventually discovered by the Schlaaang Corporation after Bishopman turns them in. After a dramatic shootout in front of the mall, in which most of the main characters are killed, Tim and Eric manage to kill the members of the Schlaaang Corporation, and are sentenced to death for murder.

However, it is revealed that the preceding events are actually a film the two were showing to Steven Spielberg, who pronounces it the greatest movie ever made. Tim and Eric then celebrate with their ''Awesome Show'' co-stars.

