British spy Finn McMissile infiltrates an oil rig owned by criminal lemon cars to rescue fellow spy Leland Turbo. He witnesses the lemons, seemingly led by weapons designer Professor Zündapp, loading an electromagnetic pulse generator, disguised as a TV camera, onto a shipping crate. After discovering Turbo's death, Finn's presence gets exposed to the lemons, and he escapes by faking his death.

After winning his fourth Piston Cup, Lightning McQueen returns to Radiator Springs to spend his off-season with his friends. Italian formula race car Francesco Bernoulli challenges Lightning to participate in the World Grand Prix, an international three-race event created by former oil tycoon turned electric car Sir Miles Axlerod, who intends to promote his new environmentally friendly fuel, Allinol. Lightning and his best friend Mater — along with Luigi, Guido, Fillmore, and Sarge — depart for Tokyo, where the first race takes place.

At a World Grand Prix promotional event, Mater makes a scene after eating wasabi and seemingly leaking on stage, embarrassing Lightning. While cleaning up, Mater interrupts a fight between American spy Rod "Torque" Redline and lemons Grem and Acer. Redline plants his tracking device on Mater, causing the spy Finn McMissile and his associate Holley Shiftwell to mistake Mater for the spy. Meanwhile, Redline is captured and killed by Zündapp, who reveals that Allinol ignites when hit with an EMP. He informs his superior, an unknown mastermind, that Redline passed on his information. Holley finds and recruits Mater to stop Zündapp's plot.

During the race, three racers are ignited by the camera. Lightning places second in the race after Bernoulli, due to miscommunication with Mater, who was evading Zündapp's henchmen. Mater is abducted by Finn, and they escape from the lemons in his jet, Siddeley. After traveling to Paris to gather intel from Finn's old friend Tomber, they head to Porto Corsa, Italy, where the second race takes place. During the race, Mater infiltrates the lemons' meeting, just as the camera ignites some more racers, causing a multi-car pile-up, while Lightning wins. Due to controversy over Allinol's safety, Axlerod lifts its requirement for use in the final race in London. When Lightning decides to continue using it, the lemons plan to kill him in the race. This spooks Mater, and accidentally blows his cover, causing him, Finn, and Holley to be captured and tied up inside Big Bentley, where he admits to them that he is not the spy they think he is.

When the race starts, Lightning takes the lead before passing Big Bentley, but the camera is inexplicably defective on him. The lemons tell Mater that they planted a time bomb in Lightning's pits as a backup plan, spurring him to escape. Finn and Holley escape but realize that the bomb was fitted on Mater's air filter instead. As Mater flees down the track, Lightning pursues him to apologize for his outburst, while Finn apprehends Zündapp. The other lemons arrive and outnumber Finn, Holley, Mater, and Lightning, but they are rescued by the other Radiator Springs residents and Sarge's colleagues in the British Army. Mater and Lightning go to Buckingham Palace, where Mater exposes Axlerod as the mastermind, proven when he is forced to disable the bomb. It is then revealed that the World Grand Prix was his cover-up to turn the world against alternative fuels. Mater also reveals that the supposedly electric Axlerod was instead running on an old gasoline engine, and that he leaked oil in Tokyo and blamed it on Mater. After Axlerod and the lemons are arrested by the London police, Mater receives a knighthood from the Queen, and he and Lightning reconcile.

Back in Radiator Springs, as Mater tells everyone about his experience, Fillmore reveals that Sarge has swapped Allinol with his organic fuel, explaining the camera's ineffectiveness on Lightning. A "Radiator Springs Grand Prix" is held, featuring the World Grand Prix contenders. Finn and Holley invite Mater to go on another mission, but he declines. While his weapons get confiscated, he keeps the rockets and speeds off with Lightning, just as Siddeley speeds into the distance.

