In Stratford-upon-Avon, elder neighbours Miss Montague and Mr. Capulet despise each other. When they leave their respective gardens, their garden gnomes and other lawn ornaments come to life. The Montague garden is filled with blue-hatted gnomes led by Lady Blueberry, and the Capulet garden is filled with red-hatted gnomes led by Lord Redbrick, who share in their owners’ feud. One day in a back-alley lawnmower race, Lady Blueberry's son Gnomeo competes against his Red rival Tybalt, who destroys Gnomeo's lawnmower. 

That night, Gnomeo and his best friend Benny infiltrate the Red garden in disguise to vandalise Tybalt's mower as revenge, but Benny instead vandalizes Tybalt's pedestal and accidentally triggers a security light. During their escape, Gnomeo ends up in an abandoned garden nearby and bumps into a disguised Juliet, daughter of Lord Redbrick, who dislikes her father's overprotective nature and is attempting to retrieve a unique Cupid's Arrow orchid from the roof of the greenhouse. The two are enthralled by each other and a flirty fight for the flower ensues, culminating in the pair falling into a pond and discovering each other's colours. Shocked, Juliet flees home and tells her frog-sprinkler friend Nanette about her newfound love. Nanette declares it romantically tragic but agrees to keep it a secret.

Gnomeo and Juliet continue to meet secretly in the nearby garden, where they encounter a pink plastic flamingo named Featherstone who encourages their love. Lord Redbrick pairs Juliet with an overbearing Red gnome named Paris, but Juliet distracts him with Nanette, who quickly falls for him. Lady Blueberry is distraught after the Reds infiltrate the garden and destroy the plant nurtured by Gnomeo's late father in retaliation for Gnomeo's earlier actions. The Blues urge Gnomeo to take revenge on the Reds, but as he's about to spray their prized tulips with insecticide, Juliet catches him in the act, prompting Gnomeo to back out. Back in the abandoned garden, the two argue until Featherstone tells them about how he lost his beloved mate when the couple living in the garden's house divorced and each took a flamingo, leaving Featherstone locked in a tool shed for years. He urged them to not let their family differences get in the way of their love. Inspired by Featherstone's story, Gnomeo and Juliet reconcile and vow to build a garden together.<ref>In ''Sherlock Gnomes'', the couple are said to be a younger Miss Montague and Mr. Capulet, who reconcile between the events of the two films.</ref>

Benny sees the two about to kiss and runs into the alleyway, unaware that Tybalt (who wants revenge for his pedestal being vandalized) is waiting with his lawnmower. He successfully breaks Benny's hat, but a furious Gnomeo intervenes, instigating a fight until the lawnmower runs into the wall, shattering Tybalt. Blaming Gnomeo for the shattering, the Reds attack him, resulting in Gnomeo accidentally being pushed into the busy road and a blue teapot falls from a passing truck, causing everyone to believe Gnomeo has been run over. A distraught Juliet attempts to rush into the road, but Lord Redbrick has her taken back to the garden and her feet glued to her tower for her own safety. 

Gnomeo's mushroom friend, Shroom, discovers that Gnomeo is still alive and was carried off by a dog to a nearby park, where he climbed onto a statue of William Shakespeare and tells him his story. Shakespeare notes that Gnomeo's tale is similar to his own story of ''Romeo and Juliet'' and predicts that Gnomeo's will have a tragic ending like his.

Meanwhile, Benny sneaks into Miss Montague's house and uses her computer to order a powerful Terrafirminator lawnmower (falling in love with a porcelain doll in the process), seeking revenge on the Reds. The Terrafirminator quickly arrives and initially works well with destroying the Red garden, but Benny ultimately loses control of it and the machine starts destroying both gardens while the gnomes wage a full-scale war. 

After Gnomeo hears that Juliet's in danger, he races back to the gardens with Featherstone and Shroom's help. Meanwhile, the Terrafirminator has destroyed most of the gardens and is now targeting Juliet's tower. Juliet is relieved to see Gnomeo alive, but the happiness is short-lived as Gnomeo is unable to free her glued feet. Juliet urges Gnomeo to save himself but he refuses to leave her, and they share a passionate kiss as the lawnmower crashes into the tower and self-destructs, seemingly killing them both. 

Realizing the consequences of their vendetta, a grieving Lady Blueberry and Lord Redbrick reconcile and end their feud. Suddenly, Gnomeo and Juliet emerge from the ruins unscathed and, as the two clans celebrate, the couple kiss. Later on, a reformed Tybalt is rebuilt, and Featherstone is reunited with his mate. Everyone happily sees Gnomeo and Juliet off as they get married and drive away on a purple lawnmower, signifying the new union between the families.

