{{Anchor|Synopsis}}
Growing up in New York City, Jill Sadelstein unsuccessfully tries constantly to get the attention of her gifted fraternal twin brother Jack by injuring him or repelling others from him. Jack, currently a successful Los Angeles advertising executive, lives with his wife Erin, their biological daughter Sofia, and their adoptive Hindu son Gary, who compulsively tapes various objects to his own body as a habit. Unlike her husband, Erin views Gary's behavior as his trademark.

The unemployed Jill has been living alone in their working-class neighborhood in the Bronx, having recently inherited her mother's house following her death the previous year. She visits Jack for Thanksgiving, greatly horrifying him by announcing her plans to depart as soon as Hanukkah passes due to an open-ended plane ticket. At dinner, she annoys him and embarrasses a homeless guest named Otto as well as Erin's parents, Carter and Bitsy Simmons. Jack snaps at her, sending her fleeing into the woods with her pet cockatoo Poopsie; Erin demands that Jack apologize for upsetting her, which he unwillingly does.  

Jill goes through a list of things she has planned to do during her visit, which include playing as a contestant on ''The Price is Right'' (she receives a variety of prizes after incapacitating herself while spinning the wheel), going horseback riding (she proves too heavy for a pony, which collapses under her weight) and touring a studio. A day later, her obnoxious conduct results in Jack and his family being banned from their local cinema.  

Deciding that she needs a romantic partner, Jack, aided by his children, encourages her to try online dating, but she is initially unsuccessful until Jack alters her profile and puts it on Craigslist, leading to over 100 responses. A person nicknamed "Funbucket", meets her at a swanky restaurant but only a few minutes into their evening, hides in the men's restroom until she leaves. The staff of his company Sunny & Sadelstein throw Jack a birthday party, and Jill is invited, but she disgraces herself along with Jack and his colleagues, causing her to be ejected.  

Meanwhile, Jack is asked by his agency client to cast actor Al Pacino in a Dunkin' Donuts commercial to advertise their newest coffee beverage, the "Dunkaccino". At a Lakers game, Pacino ignores Jack but is infatuated with Jill, as they grew up on the same street. He gives her his phone number and invites her to his dwelling, where she accidentally destroys his Oscar statuette, but she is uninterested in him and promptly departs. Jack's Mexican gardener Felipe, also smitten with her, introduces her to his family at their annual fiesta. She immediately connects with everyone, but upon trying Mexican food for the first time, she suffers a severe case of diarrhea. 

As Pacino refuses the Dunkaccino advertisement unless he has another date with her, Jack invites her to accompany him and his immediate family on a cruise. She insists on bringing Poopsie, despite the cruise line's strict policy against pets. At sea, they both irritate everybody onboard except for her brother's family. When she repeatedly declines to give Pacino another chance, Jack volunteers on her behalf, disguised as her. Suspecting that her invitation was just so Pacino would do the advertisement, she phones Jack, who answers as her, and hears Pacino in the background. Dejected, she returns home, humiliating Jack. Arriving in the Bronx on New Year's Eve, Jill discovers that the bank has foreclosed on her mother's dwelling because she continuously discarded numerous bills which she mistook for junk mail. 

The now-homeless Jill, carrying a picture of the siblings' deceased mother, encounters a group of former schoolmates, led by class bully Monica, at a restaurant. When Jack arrives with his family, the siblings reconcile via their made-up language. Monica attacks Erin, but Jill cold-cocks her. Pacino arrives dressed as Don Quixote, his character in a current Broadway production of ''Man of La Mancha'', and reminds Jill that he cares about her, but other men deserve her more than he does. She returns to Felipe, who confesses he loves her, and they start a relationship. Pacino ultimately disapproves of the final commercial, which features himself rapping, and instructs Jack to destroy every copy.

