Ned Rochlin, a biodynamic agriculture farmer who is living with his girlfriend, Janet, gets arrested for selling pot to a uniformed police officer.

Ned has three sisters: Miranda, a journalist hoping to get her first major article with ''Vanity Fair'' and harboring feelings for her neighbor, Jeremy; Natalie, a hipster living with her girlfriend Cindy and other roommates; and Liz, a housewife married to Dylan, a documentary filmmaker who is inattentive; they strictly control their son River, unable to express himself or choose his activities, putting him in interpretive dance class when he longs to take taekwondo.

Paroled, Ned discovers Janet has ditched him for mellow Billy, and no longer wishes him on the farm. Billy suggests he may be able to rent the goat barn out back. Initially staying at his mother's, Ned asks to stay with Liz. While he bunks in River's room, he is told to help with Dylan's documentary about Belarusian ballerina Tatiana.

One day, Ned is told to watch the car while Dylan interviews Tatiana. When a police officer asks him to move it, Ned runs upstairs for the keys and discovers Dylan naked with Tatiana. Dylan claims that he was only making her "comfortable". He is later kicked out of Liz's after River announces Ned's legal trouble at an important school admission interview.

Miranda reluctantly asks Ned to chauffeur while she interviews Lady Arabella, but is legally unable to pry into her scandalous past, while he charms Arabella. At her benefit dinner, she shares personal details of her life with him.

Staying with Miranda, Ned mentions Dylan's nude interview, and she deduces he is cheating on Liz. Realizing he has the details she needs about Arabella, she forces him to tell her. Ashamed, Ned returns to the farm; Janet does not let him rent the barn or leave with his dog, “Willie Nelson”.

Ned has lunch with Jeremy, who explains that Miranda is too bossy for him. She is hurt when he mentions the conversation and reveals her thoughts on Jeremy, leading to a fight between them.

Miranda and Nat try to tell Liz about Dylan's affair, which leads to an argument about all their personal lives. Liz confronts Dylan, then divorces him.

Miranda takes Ned to verify the details of her article, but he won't sign a release as Arabella spoke to him privately. The company lawyer deems the article unpublishable, and Miranda kicks Ned out.

Ned attends a self-help meeting with Natalie. Her friend Christian is attracted to her but holds back as he knows of her lesbian relationship. When Ned tells him she is bisexual, he makes a move and they are intimate. Natalie later confides to Ned that she is pregnant.

Ned asks Cindy, a lawyer, how to get custody of Willie, and she suggests they just take him back. At that point, Ned is staying with Nat, who lies about having told her about Christian (and the pregnancy). As Cindy and Ned sneak onto the farm to retrieve his dog, when he mentions Nat's infidelity, she angrily calls her from inside the house. Janet catches them before they get Willie. Cindy, in midst of yelling at Nat over the phone, leaves without Ned.

Ned naively tells his parole officer, Omar, that he smoked marijuana recently. At the family dinner, Ned's sisters blame him for their troubles, driving Ned to angrily call them out for their selfishness. Omar arrives to reluctantly take Ned into custody. Although his family posts his bail, he opts to stay in to keep away from them. They go get Willie from Janet to cheer him up. Although she refuses, Billy freely gives them the dog. Reunited with his dog, Ned is motivated to leave prison.

A few weeks later, at lunch with Ned, his sisters all have improvements in their lives: Cindy plans to accompany Nat to her prenatal appointments; Miranda has started a relationship with Jeremy, and Liz is dating and letting River be himself. Ned and Billy have opened up a small homemade candle shop. When Ned finds Willie playing with another dog, her owner (Amy) says she's "Dolly Parton", he tells her his dog is "Willie Nelson", and they both smile.

