Teenage friends Will McKenzie, Simon Cooper, Jay Cartwright, and Neil Sutherland finish their A-levels and prepare to leave Rudge Park Comprehensive. To celebrate, the boys decide to go on a "lads holiday" together to Malia, Crete. Arriving in the country, the boys find their accommodation to be a rundown hostel, and venture out later to experience the country's nightlife. In the town centre, the boys are tricked by a rep into visiting a deserted bar, and they meet a group of four girls who are holidaying: Alison, Lucy, Lisa, and Jane. While their initial meeting and conversations do not go smoothly, and Alison is already in a relationship with a local Greek waiter called Nicos, the girls arrange to meet the boys again at the girl's hotel the following day. Simon sees his former girlfriend Carli across the street, but is introduced to her new love interest, James, a cocky, arrogant club rep. Carli reveals that she is going to an all-day boat party later in the week before she returns to England, and Simon promises to meet her there.

The next day, the boys meet the girls at their hotel, but after several mishaps involving Jay and Will, they are kicked out. Jay and Simon get into an argument over Simon's obsession with Carli and they briefly fight each other in the street. Desperate to buy a ticket for the boat party to try to reconcile with Carli, Simon naïvely "sells" all of his clothes to James without receiving payment. It is revealed Jay had bought four boat party tickets, but had torn up Simon's after the fight. Jay and Neil go to a club where they encounter James and his friends and try to befriend them, but James verbally abuses the pair, forcing them to leave. That evening, the four boys meet up and reconcile. The girls appear and Will and Alison, Simon and Lucy, and Jay and Jane all grow closer to each other, while Neil disappears with an older woman. The girls suggest that they all go skinny dipping at the local beach. Jay becomes embarrassed when two men laugh at Jane for being overweight, and an upset Jane leaves him. Alison removes Will's glasses as they strip naked. While trying to find them, Will stumbles upon her boyfriend, Nicos, having sex with another woman and Alison leaves, distraught. In the sea, Lucy and Simon prepare to kiss, but Simon sees Carli on the beach and leaves Lucy alone, angering her. With the girls having left, the boys decide to visit various bars and clubs to get drunk.

On the day of the boat party, the group meet the girls again at the beach, where Alison reconciles with Will and gives him Nicos' ticket to join her on the boat. Elsewhere, Simon apologises to Lucy and she offers him her boat party ticket so that he can be with Carli. On board, Simon witnesses an argument between Carli and James. Carli kisses Simon passionately, but he realises that she is just using him to make James jealous; finally seeing Carli for her true colours, he leaves her. Will and Alison admit their feelings toward each other and Jay apologises to Jane and both start a relationship, while Neil and Lisa do the same. Jay and Jane encounter James who mocks Jane's weight and demands a banknote from Jay so that he can snort cocaine. Jay gets revenge on him by giving James a €20 note that was concealed in his anus, leaving James to unknowingly have faeces on his nose. Simon realises that Lucy is more worthy of his attention than Carli, and decides to swim back to shore to her as a romantic gesture; however, he nearly drowns on the way there. As he is taken back to the beach via air ambulance, Lucy kisses him and they reconcile.

During the credits, the four boys and the girls spend the rest of their holiday together as couples. When the holiday ends, upon their return to England, the group say goodbye at Gatwick Airport and the girls are introduced to the boys' parents.

