Two years after the events in Las Vegas, Stu Price is preparing to travel to Thailand for his upcoming wedding to Lauren, his fiancée. In order to avoid the events in Las Vegas, Stu initially doesn't allow his three best friends, Doug Billings, Phil Wenneck and especially Alan Garner to accompany him. He also hosts his bachelor party at a breakfast restaurant with Phil and Doug with Alan not being there due to Stu intentionally not inviting him. After this and Tracy asking her husband Doug to convince Stu to allow her brother Alan to accompany them to Thailand, Stu allows his friends (including Alan), Tracy and Phil's wife Stephanie to go with him. At the airport and much to Alan's dismay, they are joined by Lauren's younger brother, a Stanford University scholar named Teddy. At the rehearsal dinner, Lauren's father reveals his disapproval of Stu during a toast. Later that night, Stu hesitantly joins Phil, Doug, Alan and Teddy for a beer. Sitting at a campfire and roasting marshmallows, the group toast to Stu and Lauren's future happiness.

The next day, Phil, Stu and Alan awaken in a dilapidated hotel room in Bangkok with no memory of how they got there. Stu has a face tattoo similar to Mike Tyson's and Alan's head is completely shaved. They meet a chain-smoking capuchin monkey and discover that their old 'friend', Chinese gangster Leslie Chow, followed them to Thailand on Alan's invitation. They cannot find Teddy, discovering only his severed finger. Chow begins to relate the events of the prior night, but he seemingly dies after snorting a line of cocaine. Panicked, the trio disposes of Chow's body in the hotel's ice box.

Through a tip from Doug (who left the campfire earlier and stayed at the resort), they go to a police station to pick up Teddy, but are given a wheelchair containing an elderly Buddhist monk. He refuses to reveal anything, having taken a vow of silence. After finding a business card, they travel to the smoldering ruins of the business.

They enter a nearby tattoo parlor where Stu got his tattoo, and they learn that they started a fight that escalated into a riot. The trio returns the monk to his temple, where they are encouraged by the head monk to meditate. Alan manages to recall that they had been at a strip club, where they learn that Stu engaged in sexual intercourse with a transsexual woman. Upon exiting, the trio is attacked by two Russian mobsters who take the monkey, and one shoots Phil in his arm.

After Phil is treated at a clinic, Alan confesses that he had drugged some of the marshmallows from the previous night with muscle relaxers and his ADHD medication in order to sedate Teddy, as he feared the others were going to replace him, but accidentally mixed up the bags. Phil and Stu become furious that Alan drugged them again. Stu blames Alan for ruining his life and attacks him, but Phil breaks it up and tells them that they have to stick together. They notice something on Alan's stomach: an address and a time for a meeting. They meet a gangster named Kingsley, who demands Chow's bank account password by the following morning in exchange for Teddy. They return to the hotel to try to find Chow's password, only to discover that he is still alive. They steal the monkey, who had the code given to him and put inside his vest for safe-keeping by Chow, back from the Russian mobsters through a violent car chase, during which the monkey is shot and injured.

After taking the code and leaving the monkey outside a veterinary clinic, the group completes the deal with Kingsley the next morning. Interpol agents appear and arrest Chow. Kingsley turns out to be an undercover agent, who tells the trio that he does not actually know where Teddy is.

Desperate, Phil calls Doug's wife Tracy to tell her they cannot find Teddy. Stu decides to call off the wedding, live in Bangkok and say that Teddy died. During a rolling blackout, Stu realizes where Teddy is. The trio rushes back to the hotel to find Teddy who is in the elevator (though is still missing a finger). Teddy had woken up earlier than the others, but became trapped after the power went out when he went to get ice for his finger. The four use Chow's speedboat to travel back to the wedding reception.

Arriving just as Lauren's father is about to cancel the wedding, Stu makes a defiant speech, and rejects being a boring dentist and instead insists he is quite wild. Impressed, Lauren's father gives the couple his blessing. Alan presents Stu with a special gift at the reception: a musical guest performance by Mike Tyson. Teddy later discovers that he had taken many pictures during the night on his cell phone before the battery died. The group, along with Tyson, agree to look at the pictures together once before deleting them.

