Growing up in rural Texas, Richard Speck is abused physically, psychologically and possibly sexually by his stepfather. Becoming a delinquent in his teenage years, Speck is eventually sentenced to psychiatric counseling, which he avoids by hopping a train out of town. Speck subsequently marries a woman named Sissy, who leaves him due to his violent, demeaning mistreatment of her. After the divorce, Speck moves to Chicago, where he makes the acquaintance of a student nurse named Sharon. One night in 1966, an intoxicated Speck, needing money for a trip to New Orleans, breaks into Sharon's dormitory, intent on robbing her and her eight roommates. Speck experiences a psychotic break during the burglary, and ends up raping and torture-murdering Sharon and seven of the other women; the sole survivor, Sondra Azano, makes it through the night by hiding under a bed.

Speck spends the proceeding days drifting in and out of motels and bars in an inebriated haze, at one point confessing his crimes to a prostitute, who he then assaults. The officers who respond to the disturbance, unaware that Speck is wanted for mass murder, merely confiscate his firearm. Speck winds up in a flophouse, where he attempts suicide by slitting his wrists. Speck survives and is hospitalized. While treating Speck, a physician realizes that he is the killer that the police are looking for after spotting the "Born to Raise Hell" tattoo on Speck's arm.

Speck is placed under arrest, and identified at the hospital by Sondra. Initially given the death penalty for his crimes, Speck's sentence is reduced to 400–1200 years, to be served in the Joliet Correctional Center. Speck refuses to attend any of his parole hearings, is uncooperative in therapy, and resigns himself to spending the rest of his life behind bars, where he dies of a heart attack in 1991. Four years later, a video of Speck (who has burgeoning breasts due to smuggled female hormones that he has been taking) doing drugs and bantering with his cellmate and lover was leaked. In the footage, the strung out Speck at one point declares, "Hell, if they knew how much fun I was havin' in here, they'd let me loose!"

