Jamie Ashen and his wife Lisa receive an anonymous gift of a ventriloquist doll called "Billy". When Jamie goes out, a figure kills Lisa. Jamie returns to find that her tongue has been cut off; he is arrested for presumably killing her. After Jamie is released by police detective Jim Lipton due to lack of evidence, he spots inside Billy's box a mysterious message about "Mary Shaw", a deceased ventriloquist from his hometown, Raven's Fair. Returning to Raven's Fair, now old and rundown, Jamie visits his estranged, wheelchair-bound father Edward, and his much-younger wife, Ella. He arranges for Lisa's funeral with the help of local mortician Henry Walker. Henry's senile wife, Marion, urges him to bury Billy. Jamie does so but is confronted by Lipton, who followed Jamie and finds his actions suspicious.

Henry explains that Mary Shaw was publicly humiliated when a young boy named Michael rudely claimed that he could see her lips moving during one of her performances. Some weeks later, Michael disappeared, and his family blamed it on Mary and lynched her. Mary's last wish was to have her body turned into a doll and buried with her collection of dolls, who she called her children. Henry, then a child, saw Shaw (after she was turned into a dummy) rise up, but was spared thanks to his silence, because Mary only kills those who scream when exposed to her true appearance. Jamie finds out that Michael, who actually ''was'' murdered by Mary Shaw, was his great-uncle. The Ashen family forced Mary to scream and silenced her by cutting her tongue out; she has since been seeking revenge against their bloodline by killing them the same way.  

Mary Shaw kills Henry, and Lipton discovers that all of her dolls have been dug up. At Shaw's old theater, Jamie and Lipton discover 100 of the dolls in their display case, along with Michael's body, which had been turned into a marionette. Mary's ghost reveals that she killed Lisa because she was pregnant with his child, thereby killing any potential newborn of the Ashen family. Jamie and Lipton start a fire to destroy the dolls, but Lipton trips and screams, sealing his fate. Back at his father's residence, Jamie is confronted by Mary, but repels her by throwing Billy into the fireplace. He learns, much to his horror, that his father is already dead; the current "Edward" he has been interacting with all this time is a doll converted from his corpse; his voice was provided by Ella, the "perfect doll" that Mary Shaw created before her death. Jamie screams as Ella becomes possessed by Mary; he suffers the same fate as everyone else.

Jamie, now a puppet, recites a nursery rhyme about Shaw while a photo album with other human puppets is shown: Lisa, Henry, Lipton, Edward, Ella, and Jamie himself. Mary closes the book, finally completing her revenge and ending the Ashen bloodline.

