Sean Stover, Ritch Petroski, Wes Harding and Lauren Findley celebrate their college graduation by breaking into Saranac Grotto, a forest heavily marked with "No Trespassing" signs and surrounded by a tall fence. While speeding down a dirt road, they hit and kill a grizzly bear cub, sending their Jeep Cherokee into a tree and cracking the radiator. As they argue over whether they should bury the dead cub, they hear its mother coming and run. The vehicle overheats down the road, so Wes and Ritch go into the forest to find water. The grizzly bear finds and attacks Ritch. Having heard Ritch's screams to run, Wes inadvertently runs into the bear, and it attacks him. The other two arrive and rescue Wes but are unable to help Ritch. The bear kills him while the others flee to the Jeep.

The vehicle starts again and they leave, but Wes panics and tries to force Sean to turn around and head back for Ritch, causing the car to go over a cliff. Calmer, he wants to wait for help, but no one knows where they are because they had told their families they were going somewhere else. They winch the vehicle back up to the road, but they cannot get it to start.

Sean goes alone and jogs {{convert|15|km|mi|sp=us}} out of the forest to find help while Wes and Lauren wait at the Jeep. He comes across a deserted shack where he finds hunting paraphernalia, a bear trap and dead animals. As Sean leaves, the bear appears. He tries to sneak past the bear, but instead, he runs into the bear. It throws him on the shack's roof and then he falls into a chicken coop. Hours later, he makes it back to the Jeep, but his leg is injured. Wes decides to climb a tall hill on the other side of the clearing to see if he can get a signal on his cell phone, but to no avail and the bear nearly catches him. He quickly climbs back down and gets back to the Jeep though it will still not start. He and Lauren hide in the Jeep with the wounded Sean in the back.

The bear follows and climbs on top of the Jeep, smashing up the car and eventually overturning it before leaving as the sun sets. Sean wakes up and tells them about the deserted shack, crying about wanting to go home before he dies. Wes and Lauren turn the Jeep right side up, load him back in the car, then push the Jeep down the hilly road as a thunderstorm hits. Using the downward momentum, they arrive near the shack. While Lauren explores the shed with the trap, the bear swings at her through a window, sending her back against the trap, impaling her back. She returns to the vehicle, where the bear rips off the tailgate and drags away Sean's body.

Wes grabs a gasoline can and pours a trail from the Jeep to the woods. They lure the grizzly bear to it and then set the gas on fire. The Jeep explodes, but the bear is unharmed. They decide to try another plan and split up. Wes climbs a tree, leaving his blood-covered clothes on the ground to trick the bear. While the bear is sniffing at the clothes, Wes accidentally drops the tire iron, alerting the bear to his presence. The bear shakes him out of the tree, but he escapes and goes to the shack where Lauren has built a trap. They lure the bear into the shed and use a trigger to close the front door behind it, locking it in. They celebrate and start to leave, but the bear breaks out of the shack, and they both try to escape. Unfortunately, Wes stumbles and Lauren tries to get him back up, refusing to leave him behind despite his desperate insistence that she should run. The bear catches up to them and kills them both.

