Following the events of ''Hostel'' (2005), Paxton suffers from PTSD and lives in seclusion with his girlfriend, Stephanie. After an argument where Stephanie denounces Paxton's paranoia as exaggerated and "insufferable", she wakes to find his headless corpse in their kitchen. Soon after, an unmarked box containing Paxton's severed head is delivered to the Elite Hunting Club's boss, Sasha Rassimov.

In Rome, three American art students, Beth, Whitney, and Lorna, are convinced by Axelle, a nude model they are sketching, to join her on a luxurious spa vacation in Slovakia. The four check into a hostel, where the desk clerk surreptitiously uploads their passport photos to an auction website ran by the Elite Hunting Club. American businessman Todd and his best friend Stuart win the bids on Whitney and Beth, and excitedly travel to Slovakia.

Later that night, at the village's harvest festival, Lorna is invited by Roman, a Slovakian local, to join him on a boat ride. After being taken to a secluded area downstream, Lorna is kidnapped, and awakens to find herself having been stripped naked, bound, and gagged Lorna is hung upside down. Another woman enters the room, disrobes, and lies naked beneath Lorna, before using a long scythe to repeatedly slash Lorna's back, torso, and eventually her throat, all whilst reveling in her dripping blood. Meanwhile, Beth, Whitney, Axelle, and a local man, Miroslav, head to a spa to relax. Beth falls asleep, and wakes up alone and without her belongings. While looking for her friends, she is pursued by several men and flees the spa. In the woods, she is ambushed by a gang of violent gypsy street children, but is saved by Sasha and Axelle; after both ladies leave, Sasha executes one of the boys as punishment.

Later, at Sasha's remote mansion, Beth is pursued by the men from earlier, whom she realizes are associated with Sasha and Axelle. Looking for a hiding place, she discovers a room filled with human trophy heads (one of which is Paxton's) before being captured, taken to an abandoned factory and tied up in a room. Beth is soon joined by Stuart, who is supposed to kill her, yet appears reluctant to do so.

In another room, Todd terrorizes Whitney with a power saw, but loses his nerve after accidentally partially scalping her without killing her. Horrified, Todd tries to leave, but is informed that he must kill Whitney before leaving. Todd refuses and tries to leave anyway, but the guards release attack dogs, which tear Todd apart. The Elite Hunting Club then offers the maimed Whitney to the other clients to kill, including an elderly Italian man who is eating Miroslav alive. Stuart, after learning of Todd's death, shows Beth the pictures of the maimed Whitney to frighten her, then accepts the club's offer, leaves Beth, and beheads Whitney.

Meanwhile, Stuart, who has now officially made up his mind, prepares to torture and kill Beth, explaining that she bears an extremely close resemblance to Stuart's wife, whom Stuart hates but has never had the opportunity to kill. Stuart then begins to torture her, but Beth is able to seduce him into untying her from the chair. Stuart attempts to rape her, but she fights him off and chains him to the chair. Sasha and the guards arrive at her cell, where Beth offers to buy her freedom with part of her inheritance, and though Stuart tries to outbid her, Sasha reveals that he knows that Stuart cannot afford to do so. After Sasha tells Beth that she must kill someone before leaving, she cuts off Stuart's entire genitalia and leaves him to bleed to death, an act that gives pause to even the jaded guards. Satisfied, Sasha gives Beth an Elite Hunting tattoo, making her an official member.

That night, Axelle is lured by the Gypsy street children into the woods, where Beth ambushes and beheads her. Shortly after, the children start playing football with Axelle's severed head.

