Researchers Frank Mills and Tillman are exploring the lake on a rubber tube raft until Tillman is dragged into the water and killed by a crocodile. In Aroostook County, Maine, Frank reports this to sheriff James Riley, showing him Tillman's severed body parts. James, Frank, and wildlife officer Emma Warner venture out onto the lake, where they find more of Tillman's remains. Meanwhile, three friends, Mike, Edie, and Sharon are killed by a crocodile while swimming in the lake. James, Emma and Frank stop at the house of Sadie Bickerman, an elderly hermit who has allegedly been feeding the crocodiles, to interrogate her about her missing sister Delores, but she refuses to answer nor let them in the house. A poacher named Jack Struthers and his assistant Ahmad land their plane on the lake, hoping to kill the crocodiles after getting a tip from a local.

The sheriff's son, Scott Riley, wanders into the woods, and appears to be stalked by the incoming crocodile. It turns out to be Daisy, the pet dog of Kerri. Scott then meets Kerri and her boyfriend, Thad. Daisy barks at something moving in the lake, but Kerri sees nothing. Sadie talks with a photographer at a boat dock before going back to her cabin, and the photographer is killed purposely by a crocodile while taking pictures.

Riding the boat again, James suddenly slows down, knocking Frank into the lake, but James and Emma bring him back on board to safety. When a crocodile appears, James draws his gun, but the crocodile dives under to knock the three off the boat. The boat is demolished, and all three get to land unharmed. The three meet Struthers and Ahmad, who flew a plane to distract the crocodile.

The next scene shows Rachel and Larry, along with Scott, Kerri, and Thad venturing in the woods to another part of the lake. With the Sheriff's team, Deputy Dale Davis comes in to unload the boat, while the crew sets up a tent for overnight camping. They see a wild boar trapped in a rope net and feed it to the crocodile. The crew neutralizes the crocodile with their guns and Dale ties the mouth with a rope, but the crocodile easily breaks free, severs Dale's arm and devours him. Frank dies from a fall and the others move on.

Meanwhile, Rachel is killed by the crocodile who splits her in half, while Larry manages to escape. The other three of the younger group find eggs in the woods. Thad breaks some eggs and is killed by a crocodile. The Sheriff's group feed a boar carcass to one crocodile but a harpoon arrow accidentally damages Struthers' plane. James and Ahmad abandon the boat, and Struthers is thrown off the plane, but Ahmad neutralizes the crocodile. Thunderstorms strike during the night, forcing the crew to their tents. Scott and Kerri are stranded in the woods until they find a horrified Larry. The Sheriff's crew is fast asleep in their tents until the crocodile attacks and kills Ahmad.

The next morning, Scott, Kerri, and Larry climb a tree to avoid a third crocodile, but Larry falls from the tree and is killed. James finds the two surviving teenagers, and kills the crocodile with a grenade launcher. Sadie lets the teenagers inside her house for safety and reveals that there are actually four crocodiles before tricking them into entering the lake in hopes of feeding them to the crocodiles and is then devoured by a crocodile herself. The police battles one crocodile, and Emma kills it by puncturing its mouth with a jackknife. Struthers hangs upside down on a tree and he is decapitated by the last crocodile. James kills it with multiple explosive substances that destroys the crocodile's nest.

At the end, Scott, Kerri, James, and Emma leave the lake together. Scott and Kerri reunite with Daisy, who got separated from them earlier, and the two kiss. James and Emma proceed to take the crocodile's eggs that Emma took from the nest earlier to the scientific lab for analysis.

