Catholic Church workers, lead by Monsignor Brusca (Franco Leo), dig up the body of a 19th-century church official, whose casket has a box-shaped urn chained to it. Inside they discover artifacts of Mater Lachrymarum (Moran Atias), the last surviving member of the Three Mothers, an ancient trio of powerful black magic witches. In particular, the box contains a magic tunic that, when worn by Mater Lachrymarum, increases her powers significantly.

The urn is shipped to the Museum of Ancient Art in Rome, where Sarah Mandy (Asia Argento), an American studying art restoration, works. Sarah is dating the curator Michael Pierce (Adam James), a single father who is away from the museum that night. With help from the assistant curator Giselle (Coralina Cataldi-Tassoni), Sarah opens the box and finds the tunic, a dagger, and three statues representing the three witches. Sending Sarah to her office to retrieve tools to help her translate the text on the artifacts, the assistant curator is promptly attacked by the demonic agents of Mater Lachrymarum. Sarah arrives too late to save her from being disembowelled by the monsters and tries flee the museum. She is pursued by Mater Lachrymarum's familiar in the shape of a monkey and is only able to escape when a disembodied voice guides her through a series of locked doors that are magically thrown open.

Sarah tells the police what happened, then spends the night with Michael and his son Paul. Michael visits the Cardinal who sent him the urn only to find out that, shortly after mailing the urn, he had a severe stroke and is now in a coma. An assistant of the priest, Father Milesi (Tommaso Banfi) gives Michael a message the Cardinal was writing on before collapsing. On it is scrawled the name "Mater Lachrymarum". Michael is observed by a pair of witches while leaving the hospital.

Back in Rome, chaos descends as a wave of mass suicides, murder, and violence engulfs the city. Sarah continues her own research only to be summoned by Michael to his apartment. The witches have kidnapped his young son and won't return the boy to him unless he stops his investigation. Sarah begs him to call the police, who have been tailing Sarah since the murder at the museum, but Michael refuses and instead opts to visit a local priest who is a trained exorcist. En route, Michael is found by two witches, and he is soon captured and murdered, along with his son, whose body is cannibalized by the rapidly expanding coven. Before he is killed, Michael calls Sarah and begs for her to come and help him.

As she makes her way through a crowded train station, Sarah is spotted by a gang of witches who have arrived in Rome in order to pledge their loyalty to Mater Lachrymarum. Pursued by the witches and the police, the disembodied voice from before instructs Sarah how to magically make herself invisible. She uses this to avoid a police detective, though she is forced to kill a witch, Katerina, who corners her on the train.

At the priest's home, Sarah meets Marta, a fellow white witch and friend of Sarah's deceased mother. Realizing that the voice guiding Sarah is that of her mother, Marta reveals that Sarah's mother was a powerful white witch who dared to challenge and severely wounded Mater Suspiriorum, the eldest and wisest of the Three Mothers. Suspiriorum retaliated by caused the car crash that killed Sarah's parents. Though Mater Suspiriorum and her sister Mater Tenebrarum are now dead, their sister Mater Lachrymarum has emerged from the shadows to bring about the second age of magic, with the fall of Rome as her coming-out party. They talk to the priest, but he is killed by a worshipper before he can give the two a copy of a book that would explain how to fight Mater Lachrymarum.

Sarah returns to her home in the city but finds Mater Lachrymarum's forces waiting for her. She heads for Marta's house instesd, but once again Mater Lachrymarum's minions strike and Marta and her lesbian lover are murdered. Fleeing, Sarah spots Michael, who takes her back to his apartment. Unfortunately, Sarah soon realizes that Michael is dead and that Mater Lachrymarum is animating his body in an attempt to kill her. As she burns Michael's still-animate body, the ghost of her mother intervenes one final time to banish Michael, and possibly herself along with him, to Hell.

Sarah locates De Wiitt, an alchemist whom Marta mentioned as her only hope to learn how to fight Mater Lachrymarum. After paralyzing her briefly to confirm whether she is a white witch or a black witch), he gives Sarah is given a copy of "The Three Mothers" to read, enabling her to find Mater Lachrymarum's lair. She is joined by Detective Enzo Marki, one of the police officers hunting her, and the two go into the catacombs to find Mater Lachrymarum, but are separated. Marki is captured by the witch's followers and tortured, along with De Wiitt and his assistant. Sarah is caught and brought before Mater Lachrymarum, who offers Sarah up to her cannibal followers. Sarah, having healed Enzo's wounds, uses a spear to pull the tunic off Mater Lachrymarum and tosses it into a nearby fire. This causes the mansion to collapse, and a pillar falls and impales Mater Lachrymarum. With the followers crushed as the catacomb collapses, Sarah and Marki struggle back above ground and laugh in horror and relief.

