On their way home from a family party, David and Amy Fox, who are on the verge of divorce, are on a remote mountain road due to a wreck slowing down the interstate. They stop at an old auto repair garage after their car starts making a noise. A mechanic apparently fixes the car but says he is about to close. Soon after leaving, their car breaks down. When they find that there is no cell phone reception, they walk back to the garage, only to find it has already closed. They walk to a nearby motel to seek help. When they arrive at the reception office, they hear a piercing scream coming from the room at the back of the reception, only for it to be coming from the television. The motel manager, Mason turns it off and meets the couple. He explains the auto repair garage across the street is closed until the morning, so they book a room for the night.

While getting ready for bed, David and Amy are alarmed by loud banging on their door and the door to the adjacent room. David goes to reception to tell Mason about the situation, and Mason tells them they are his only guests. Back in the room, David watches a videotape that's been left in the room's VCR. At first it seems to be a horror film, but then they realize it is a snuff film that was made in their room. David searches the room and finds multiple hidden security cameras and realizes that Mason is watching them. The recording shows previous guests being assaulted by two men then murdered by them.

David and Amy flee the room for the woods, but are confronted by two men wearing masks, so they return to the room and lock the door. In the bathroom, they are shocked to find the half-eaten apple Amy left in the car. David runs to the motel's payphone and dials 911, but Mason answers. David escapes the phone booth just before the men crash their car into it and chase him back to the room. Moments later, David and Amy hear a truck pull into the parking lot. From the window, they attract the driver's attention, but soon realize he is working with Mason. They then discover a trapdoor in the bathroom, leading to various tunnels to different rooms of the motel. They end up in the manager's room. Amy attempts to call the police but is interrupted by Mason.

Followed by the masked men, they sneak back into the tunnel and take a different route, ending up in the auto garage across from the motel. Meanwhile, a sheriff appears, having responded to Amy's attempted call. Upon searching one of the rooms, he witnesses a snuff film and flees. David and Amy run to him, and they all attempt to leave but find the engine wire to the police car has been cut. When the officer gets out, the masked men kill him. David and Amy run into one of the other rooms. David hides Amy in the ceiling while he plans to make it to Mason's office to retrieve a revolver, but the men stab him as he leaves. He collapses as Amy watches from above.

In the morning, Amy comes down and leaves, finding one of the killers' car. As she attempts to drive away, a masked man breaks into the car from the sun roof, and she crashes the car into the motel, killing him and the other man (the latter of which is revealed to be the mechanic who "helped" the couple earlier.) Amy then runs into the reception, where she finds the revolver. Mason appears and begins to strangle her with the telephone cord, then beats her as he records the struggle with his video camera. Amy fights back and manages to gain the upper hand, finally shooting Mason dead.

Amy returns to David and finds he is still alive. She goes back to reception, takes the phone cord from Mason's jacket pocket, and connects it to the phone to call 911. She then goes back to David, comforting him while waiting for the police to arrive.

