Two undercover FBI agents, Malcolm Turner and John Maxwell, find themselves assigned by their boss to track down the escaped convict, Lester Vesco, who was serving a life sentence for murder and the armed robbery of a bank. Malcolm and John learn that Lester may be seeking to find his ex-girlfriend, Sherry Pierce, an employee of the bank who is suspected of supplying him with a key to the vault, as the money that was stolen was never recovered. 

Malcolm and John stake out the house of Sherry's estranged grandmother, Hattie Mae Pierce—an obese, elderly African American woman, whom her friends affectionately call Big Momma—in Cartersville, Georgia. They soon find out she is about to leave town for two weeks to care for her ill friend at the hospital. Malcolm takes the advantage by disguising himself as Big Momma to bring Sherry to her house to get her confession to her involvement in the robbery. To maintain his disguise as Big Momma, Malcolm must maintain the real Big Momma's lifestyle. This includes dealing with her lecherous boyfriend, assuming her occupation as a midwife, and attending self-defense classes led by dim-witted security guard Nolan, whom the agents are later forced to recruit when he stumbles onto their operation. 

During this time, Malcolm bonds with Sherry and her ten-year-old son, Trent, both in disguise and as himself—posing as Big Momma's handyman. He finds nothing to link her to the robbery, nor to the missing money's location. After attending a church service with them, where he compels Sherry in his disguise to not hold any secrets, Malcolm finds the missing money in Trent's footlocker. This happens after returning home to a surprise birthday party for the real Big Momma. His discovery is witnessed by Sherry, who tells him she had no idea what Lester was planning, and did not report her key was stolen out of fear of being fired.

Matters soon become complicated when John discovers that the real Big Momma has returned home. In his efforts to stop her re-entering the house, John instructs Nolan to lock her out, only for the dim-witted guard to accidentally lock Malcolm out. Lester tracks Sherry down to Big Momma's house and later puts her in danger. Malcolm swiftly breaks into the house, whereupon he tackles Lester and subdues him after John is shot, but at the cost of his disguise being dropped in front of everyone, including Sherry and Trent. After Lester is arrested and the money recovered, Malcolm finds that Sherry and Trent refuse to speak to him, heartbroken by his deception. 

Seeking forgiveness, Malcolm attends the Sunday morning church service, where he gives a heartfelt speech to Sherry and Trent declaring he genuinely loves them. Big Momma forgives him for his actions, and the church crowd cheers as Malcolm and Sherry kiss, before Big Momma and the choir sing "Oh Happy Day" during the film's closing credits.

