On Halloween night, Drew Decker receives a threatening phone call while home alone. Chased outside by somebody dressed as Ghostface, she is stripped to her bra and panties before being stabbed in the breast, removing one of her silicone implants. A vehicle driven by her father, who is distracted by receiving fellatio, hits her, and she looks at her murderer just before she is fatally stabbed.

Cindy Campbell meets up with her boyfriend Bobby Prinze and her friends, Brenda Meeks, Ray Wilkins, Greg Phillippe, Buffy Gilmore and Brenda's stoner brother Shorty. News teams, including hack reporter Gail Hailstorm, converge on the school because of Drew's murder. Gail hooks up with Buffy's intellectually disabled brother Special Officer Doofy to get info from him.

While in class, Cindy notices the killer watching her from outside before receiving an ominous note and realizes Drew was murdered exactly one year after she and her friends accidentally killed a man. After football practice, Greg finds a photo of his minuscule genitals on his locker saying "I KNOW" on it. Believing Ray took it, he nearly fights him. 

Cindy tells her friends about the note, attempting to convince them to tell the police, but Greg beats her instead, fearing imprisonment for the murder of last year. At Buffy's beauty pageant that evening, the killer gets Greg in plain view, while the audience mistakes her pleas for help as part of her dramatic reading. Buffy ends up winning the pageant and forgets Greg.

Cindy goes home alone, the killer attacks her but retreats when she contacts the police. Bobby arrives and is arrested after a cellphone, knife and gloves fall out of his pocket. As Cindy spends the night at Buffy and Doofy's, she receives a call from the killer.

The following day, Bobby is released from jail. Buffy is beheaded by the killer with a cleaver. That night, Gail and her cameraman Kenny go to makeout spot Lovers Lookout to get a murder on camera. After they film the killer murdering teen Heather, he chases them into the woods and murders Kenny. Gail later gives a snot-filled apology to Kenny's family, a parody of a scene from ''The Blair Witch Project''.

Later that night, Ray and Brenda go to the movies to see ''Shakespeare in Love'', where he is stabbed through his ear in a bathroom stall through a glory hole. The killer chases Brenda, but angry movie patrons, fed up with her talking during the movie and her obnoxious behavior, stab her to death to make her stop and also as revenge for ruining ''Shakespeare in Love'' and several movies like ''Thelma and Louise'', ''The Fugitive'', ''Schindler's List'', all Jackie Chan movies, ''Boogie Nights'', and ''Big Momma's House'' until Brenda drops dead, much to the audience's relief.

Meanwhile, Cindy has a house party, hoping for safety in numbers. One of her friends Tina gets killed while getting beer from the garage. During the party, Cindy and Bobby go upstairs and have sex. The killer gets stoned with Shorty and his friends in the basement, but kills all but Shorty. After the pair has sex, the killer stabs Bobby and disappears. Cindy gets a gun from a drawer and Bobby follows. Shorty comes up from the basement warning about the killer, but Bobby shoots him. Ray arrives on the scene, still alive.

Bobby and Ray confront Cindy in the kitchen, announcing they will only kill her and her father, and that they are merely copying the real killer. Bobby admits being gay, while Ray denies it. The plan backfires when Ray stabs Bobby repeatedly out of anger and outrage because his favorite show, ''The Wayans Bros.'', has been canceled after five seasons without getting a final episode. The killer abruptly arrives and stabs him, so Cindy kicks him out a window, employing moves from ''The Matrix''. However, the killer vanishes before the police arrive, to Cindy's dismay.

At the police station, Cindy and the sheriff discover the killer was Doofy and not David Keegan, the man whom Cindy and her friends accidentally killed a year earlier. He was faking his disability and has escaped with Gail Hailstorm after removing his disguise, similar to the ending of ''The Usual Suspects''. Finding his discarded backpack with his Ghostface mask and knife in the street, Cindy begins screaming but is run over by a car as the sheriff walks away.

