A gang of robbers steal a {{convert|86|carat|g|adj=on|lk=on}} diamond while dressed as a Haredi Jew during a heist in Antwerp, Franky Four-Fingers goes to London to see diamond dealer Doug The Head on behalf of New York City jeweler and Jewish-American organized crime figure Cousin Avi. One of the other robbers tells Franky to obtain a gun from arms dealer and ex-KGB agent Boris The Blade, then later calls Boris and tells him to steal the diamond from Franky before he can turn it over to Doug.

Meanwhile, unlicensed boxing promoter and slot machine shop owner Turkish is persuaded by crime boss Brick Top to put his boxer Gorgeous George in a match against one of Brick Top's boxers. However, when Turkish sends his partner Tommy and Gorgeous George to purchase a caravan from a group of Irish Travellers, George is challenged to a fistfight by Traveller bare-knuckle boxing champion Mickey O'Neil, who knocks George out with a single punch. Turkish persuades Mickey to replace the injured George in his upcoming match by agreeing to purchase a new caravan for Mickey's mother. Brick Top grudgingly agrees, but only on the condition that Mickey will throw the fight in the fourth round.

Boris gives Franky a revolver in exchange for a favour: Franky is to place a bet on Boris' behalf at Brick Top's bookies. Avi, knowing Franky has a gambling addiction, flies to London with his bodyguard Rosebud to pick up the diamond personally. Boris hires Vinny and Sol, two pawnbrokers and small-time crooks, to rob Franky while he is at the bookies. The robbery goes awry when they crash their car into Franky's van while trying to park, trapping Franky inside. Sol, Vinny, and their getaway driver Tyrone are caught on camera and find no money at the bookies (since Georgeous George's cancellation means that all bets are off), but manage to kidnap Franky in their escape. At their pawn shop, Sol and Vinny hold Franky captive with a sack over his head. Upon Boris' arrival, Sol and Vinny demand he gives them half of the cash when he sells the diamond, during which Vinny utters Boris' name. To cover the mention of his name Boris kills Franky by shooting him in the head, and leaves with the diamond.

Instead of throwing the fight, Mickey once again knocks his opponent out with a single punch. Infuriated, Brick Top seizes Turkish's savings and demands that Mickey fight again and lose. Mickey refuses to fight again unless Turkish buys an even better caravan for his mother, but Turkish has no money to pay for it. In order to force Mickey to fight, Brick Top's men trash Turkish's arcade and burn down Mickey's mother's caravan, killing her. They then track down Tyrone, Sol, and Vinny to kill them for robbing his bookies. Sol bargains for their lives by offering Brick Top the stolen diamond, and is given 48 hours to retrieve it.

Avi and Doug hire Bullet-Tooth Tony to help them find Franky. When the trail leads to Boris, they kidnap him and retrieve the diamond, while being closely pursued by Sol, Vinny, and Tyrone. Turkish and Tommy, who are on their way to purchase a gun from Boris, are driving on the same stretch of road at the time. When Tommy throws Turkish's carton of milk out of their car window, it splashes over Tony's windscreen, causing him to crash, killing Rosebud. Boris escapes from the wreck only to be hit by Tyrone's car. Tony and Avi are confronted by Sol, Vinny, and Tyrone at a pub but Tony intimidates them into leaving by commenting that their pistols are all replicas while his handgun is real. The wounded Boris arrives with an assault rifle and a grenade launcher looking for the diamond, but is shot and killed by Tony, who also wounds Tyrone. Sol and Vinny leave the wounded Tyrone and escape with the diamond, which Vinny hides in his pants. When Tony catches up to them, they tell him that the diamond is back at their pawn shop. Once there, Vinny pretends to have misplaced the diamond, then accuses his dog, which he got earlier from the Travellers, of eating it. When Avi tells Tony to kill the dog, Vinny gives in and produces the diamond from his pants, but the dog snatches the diamond away and runs off, presumably back to the Travellers' campsite. Avi wildly fires at the fleeing dog, accidentally killing Tony. Avi then gives up and returns to New York City.

Mickey agrees to fight to avoid more carnage, but gets so drunk after his mother's wake that Turkish fears he will not make it to the fourth round. If he fails to go down in the fourth round as agreed, Brick Top vows that his men will murder Turkish, Tommy, Mickey, and all the Travellers.

At the fight, Mickey makes it to the fourth round as per Brick Top's plan, and is knocked down by his opponent. But at the last moment, Mickey recovers and once again knocks out his opponent with one punch. Outside the arena, as Tommy, Turkish, and Mickey try to run for their lives, Brick Top and his men are ambushed and killed by the Travellers. It is revealed that this has all been planned out by Mickey to avenge his mother. In fact, instead of throwing his fights as instructed, he had been secretly betting on himself to win - making huge profits, due to Brick Top driving up his odds.

The next morning, Turkish and Tommy find the Travellers' campsite deserted as Mickey and "the pikeys" have escaped with their winnings. When confronted by the police, Turkish and Tommy cannot explain why they are there, until Vinny's dog suddenly appears and they claim to be walking it. On their way back, they cross paths with Sol and Vinny, who are arrested for hiding Franky and Tony's bodies in the boot of their car. Sol and Vinny watch in defeat as Turkish and Tommy drive away with the dog (and the diamond).

Turkish and Tommy take the dog to a veterinarian to extract a squeaky toy that it had swallowed, and consequently discover the diamond in its stomach. They consult Doug about selling the diamond and he calls Avi, who returns to London to purchase it.

