Young bachelors and best friends Fred Flintstone and Barney Rubble have recently qualified as crane operators at Slate & Company. Soon to be employed, they hope to score dates, and a little green alien The Great Gazoo, exiled to Earth by his species, offers to help, although only they can see him. Meanwhile, Wilma Slaghoople wants a normal life, though her controlling mother Pearl wants her to marry suave casino-owner Chip Rockefeller.  After Wilma angrily escapes to Bronto King in Bedrock, waitress Betty O'Shale, mistaking her as "caveless," offers to share her apartment and gets her a job.

Smitten with the waitresses, the two men invite them to a carnival, with Fred dating Betty and Barney taking Wilma. However, the couples fail to bond until both men switch dates. Fred wins an egg in a carnival game which hatches into a baby dinosaur, which he names "Dino." Wilma invites her new friends home to a birthday party for her father, Colonel Slaghoople, where all are shocked by her wealth. Intending to propose, Fred changes his mind after meeting Chip, who mocks his low-level job at Slate & Company. Pearl despises the three new friends, but the Colonel, glad for Wilma's happiness, accepts them and privately gives Wilma a valuable pearl necklace that his great-grandmother once wore. After the boys humiliate themselves at dinner, Wilma nevertheless proclaims her pride and follows them out.

Chip congratulates Fred on attracting Wilma, apologizes for lampooning Fred's job, and invites the group to his Rock Vegas resort as an olive branch. However, unbeknownst to the group, Chip plots to ensure Fred gambles so Wilma dumps him, whereas Fred sees it as a chance to win big so he can impress Wilma with money like Chip's. Gangsters Big Rocko and Little Rocko visit Chip and his girlfriend Roxie to collect a sum of money that Chip owes their boss. Gazoo overhears Chip claiming his upcoming marriage to Wilma will allow him to access the Slaghoople fortune. Considering that plan creditable, the gangsters agree to suspend collections until after the wedding. When Barney tries to keep Fred from high-stakes poker, Chip sends Roxie to seduce and escort Barney to an all-you-can-eat buffet.

Chip keeps Fred gambling and he misses his dinner date with the others. Betty sees Barney wipe cream from Roxie's chest, misinterpreting the gesture as a pass. Mick Jagged comforts the weeping girl, and they go on a date. Wilma breaks up with Fred over not spending any time with her. Chip warns her of burglaries and arranges that Fred loses everything before slipping Wilma's pearls in Fred's pocket and asking him to empty them. Hotel security arrest Fred for robbery, but when Barney protests that Fred is incapable of robbery, Chip accuses Barney of being Fred's accomplice and also has him arrested. Hurt that the two stole from her, Wilma goes back to Chip.

Gazoo visits the men in prison, revealing that Chip is severely indebted to the mob and hopes to solve both his problems by framing Fred for the robbery and marrying Wilma to get the Slaghooples' money. Barney slips through the bars, steals the keys, and unlocks the cell. Disguised in drag as dancers, they accidentally run into Jagged's dressing room. Barney tells Betty he loves her, and they reconcile after the misunderstanding involving Roxie at the buffet is cleared up.

Fred plans to disguise himself as Jagged in an attempt to reconcile with Wilma. Meanwhile, in the audience, Chip proposes to an unimpressed Wilma. Fred then comes on stage disguised as Jagged and briefly sings to Wilma, apologizing for his behavior earlier before proposing to her. Knowing that she still loves Fred, Wilma happily accepts, rejecting Chip, and they marry in the Rock Vegas Chapel of Love. After the pastor proclaims them husband and wife, everyone sings "Meet the Flintstones." When Jagged sings "Viva Rock Vegas" at a party, Betty catches Wilma's tossed bouquet and kisses Barney. The newlyweds drive away with Dino and Gazoo to goodbye waves from their friends, family, and even a handcuffed Chip and Roxie.

