Lara Jean Covey, accompanied by her sisters, Kitty and Margot; her father, Dan; and her neighbor Trina Rothschild, visits Seoul for spring break. She reconnects with the memory of her mother by searching for a lock her mother had left on a bridge to memorialize her love for Dan, and finally manages to read her accompanying message, which says "for the rest of my life." 

Returning home, Lara Jean mentions to her boyfriend, Peter Kavinsky, that the two of them never had a meet-cute, meeting Peter's disbelief because he remembers their first meeting quite well. They don't have a song either, so he starts brainstorming songs. She nervously waits for the result of her Stanford University application so she can attend college with Peter. 

Dan proposes to Trina, and as the family begins to plan their upcoming wedding, they decide the three sisters will be the bridesmaids. As Lara Jean is accepted to her safety schools, the University of California, Berkeley and New York University, she is disappointed when she is rejected by Stanford. A dream she's had of her future with Peter seems to vanish. 

A wrongly sent text to him makes Peter believe Lara Jean got in, so he shows up in full Stanford regalia. Then he whisks her off to their favorite diner to celebrate. Lara Jean keeps trying to tell him, but he interrupts with a promposal. The next day, wanting to avoid telling Peter she plans to play hooky from school, when she gets an acceptance letter from Berkeley. 

It's not until they are on their senior trip to New York City that Lara Jean tells Peter about the mix up. She says she's leaning towards Berkeley to live closer to him as it's little over an hour by car. The next day they are separated on the city tour. Lara Jean and Chris get invited to a NYU party which she  enjoys immensely. 

Back home, on a date night with Lara Jean, Peter's formerly absentee father reaches out to him, proposing they try to reconnect over a meal despite the years of his absence. Shortly thereafter she discovers she's also gotten into NYU. Lara Jean is torn between going there and the plan she and Peter had made, but she ultimately explains her decision to go there. 

Peter's disappointment at her decision is palpable. Although initially the evening starts out well, Lara Jean cannot shake a feeling of impending doom. She invites him up to her room afterwards, planning to finally lose her virginity. However, she gives him a box of their mementos before, and he decides to break up with her. Peter wants to save himself from what he sees as the inevitable breakdown of a long-distance relationship. 

Respecting Lara Jean's wishes, Peter skips Dan and Trina's wedding. Instead, he meets up with his estranged dad over coffee. After the wedding festivities, Kitty conspires with Peter to set up a meeting between him and Lara Jean under the wedding tent. She finds a letter in her yearbook from him containing his account of their first meeting in sixth grade and a proposed contract to always love each other despite the {{convert|3000|mi|km}} between Stanford and NYU. Peter walks in and asks Lara Jean to sign on, to which she joyfully assents. 

The film ends with Lara Jean's reflection on wanting what she has with Peter, regardless of what films say and what stereotypes say about long-distance relationships. She remains optimistic that the distance will offer them the opportunity to keep writing love letters to one another.

