{{long plot|date=November 2022}}
At the isolated home of paraplegic Nica Pierce and her mother Sarah, a Good Guy doll called Chucky mysteriously arrives in the mail. That night, Sarah is found dead from a stab wound and her death is ruled as a suicide.

Nica is visited by her sister Barb, her husband Ian, their daughter Alice, live-in nanny Jill, and priest Father Frank. Alice finds Chucky. While Alice and Nica are making chili for dinner, Chucky secretly pours rat poison into one of the dinner bowls. Father Frank eats the poison, gets sick and ends up in a car accident that decapitates him. Back at the house, Nica and the others sit and watch projected film, in which Charles Lee Ray is seen in the background.

Jill searches for a missing Chucky, at Alice's request. It is revealed that Jill and Barb have been having an affair. Alice reveals to her mother that Chucky has been talking to her about death. Nica searches the internet and finds articles about the murders tied to both the doll and Charles Lee Ray. Chucky electrocutes Jill and causes a blackout. Ian insinuates to Barb he is aware of her affair with Jill. Barb is confronted by Nica who is now aware of what Chucky is, but is unable to get a word in edgewise as Barb accuses her of being in league with Ian to take half of her assets. Barb goes to the attic clutching Chucky. She finds a knife inside Chucky's shirt and peels some of Chucky's now-loose plastic skin, revealing the stitches created by his ex-girlfriend Tiffany hidden underneath. Chucky stabs Barb through the eye, killing her. Nica wakes Ian up in a panic, and they begin a search for Alice.

Chucky sneaks into the garage where Nica is and starts the car, filling the garage with carbon monoxide. She breaks the window with an axe but he swallows the keys and assumes a lifeless position as Ian rushes into the room. Ian disarms Nica, believing her to be responsible for the murders and he restrains her. Nica tries to explain that Chucky is alive, but Ian decides to review the footage from the hidden camera that he planted on Chucky earlier (to get evidence of Barb's sexual affair with Jill) and learns that Alice is locked in a closet and that Chucky truly is alive. Chucky kills Ian and Nica manages to break out of her restraints, blocking the hatchet with her legs. The axe gets stuck, allows Nica to grab it and behead Chucky. Chucky reattaches his head and pushes Nica off the balcony onto the ground floor.

Nica lays unable to move and asks Chucky why he is murdering her family. He explains through flashbacks that as Charles Lee Ray, he was a friend of her family and obsessed with Sarah. Ray killed Nica's father and kidnapped Sarah while she was pregnant with Nica. While Sarah was captive, Charles brought dozens of flowers to her—the ones Sarah compulsively painted. The cops find the hiding spot and Ray, blaming the discovery on Sarah, stabs her in the stomach (resulting in Nica being born paraplegic) and escapes, leading him to his death as a human. Nica, after stalling by taunting him about his inability to kill former target Andy Barclay, manages to plunge the knife into Chucky's back. Chucky remains motionless for a while before springing back to life.

Officer Stanton, the same officer who found Father Frank's body, arrives at the house and sees Barb's body. Nica holds a bloody knife alone in the elevator while Chucky sits motionless in the corner of the room. In her court hearing, Nica is found guilty of the murders and remanded to a mental asylum. Stanton, having been offered a fee to deliver Chucky to an unknown client, is ambushed and killed by Tiffany, still in Jennifer Tilly's body, when she springs from his back seat and slits his throat. Tiffany then collects Chucky and goes to a packaging center to ship him off to a new victim.

Chucky arrives to the new home of Alice, now living with her paternal grandmother. She comes home from school to find Chucky waiting for her. He suggests they play a game called “Hide the Soul.” Chucky starts the voodoo chant to transfer his soul into Alice's body, while in the next room, her grandmother suddenly sits up, with a bag over her head as she gasps for air.

In a post-credits scene, Chucky, still in his doll body, is delivered to Andy, now an adult. When Andy turns his back to answer a phone call from his mother, Chucky cuts his way out of the package. Andy points a shotgun at Chucky, saying “Play with this,” before shooting Chucky in the head.

