Katie Carter is a beautiful 20 year old model who lives in New York City, working a part-time job as a restaurant receptionist to make ends meet. Desperate to update her modeling portfolio, she answers an advertisement offering a free photography session. She then meets three Bulgarian siblings, photographers Ivan, Nicky and Georgy, who becomes infatuated with Katie. She leaves the photoshoot after disagreeing with Ivan about a topless shot. At Katie's apartment Georgy apologizes for Ivan and hands her a flash drive containing her photos.

That night, Katie wakes to find Georgy filming her, so she shocks him in self-defense. Georgy binds, gags and sodomizes her. Katie's neighbor, Jayson, intervenes but Georgy kills him. Nikolay and Ivan arrive and clean up all evidence of the crime. Ivan then force-feeds Katie ketamine, rendering her unconscious.

Katie wakes and finds herself naked and handcuffed to a pipe in a basement as the brothers relentlessly rape and torture her. She overpowers Georgy and escapes, but discovers that she's now in an unknown city. When she approaches Bulgarian police, she's taken into safe custody by Detective Kiril, who informs her that she's been kidnapped and taken to Sofia, Bulgaria‘s capital city. After an interview, Detective Kiril hands her over to Ana, who claims to be from a rape crisis center but is really Nikolay and Georgy's mother. Katie is returned to the basement and Valko, the father of a family friend, electroshocks her genitals then brutally rapes her. Ivan then beats her.

Katie is then placed in a box with her crucifix necklace and Valko's electroshock gun and buried alive, thus her rapists believe that she will die. Unbeknownst to them, the ground beneath the makeshift coffin breaks and she falls into the sewer system below. Naked, bloodied, bruised and hungry, Katie errantly makes her way through the tunnels unitl she finds some old dirty clothes which she dresses with and finally arrives to a nearby church convent where she takes food and is soon found by its rector, priest Dimov, who recognizes her as a rape survivor. In an act of kindness, he offers her food, water, clean clothing, and a Bible and helps her recover from her injuries. Katie approaches the U.S. Embassy, but leaves before going inside. Back at the church, the priest offers support to her again. As Katie goes back to the sewers, she leaves her Bible open for Dimov to read. After reading the passage "vengeance is mine", Dimov realizes that Katie seeks revenge against her rapists.

Katie first steals money from Ana's house and buys clothes, weapons, and supplies. She then lures Georgy into the sewers, captures him and hangs him by his arms on the wall. She tortures him with a large switchblade and smears fecal matter into his wounds to cause infection, then leaves him to die slowly. Meanwhile, Dimov contacts Kiril and informs him of Katie's condition and her intention to seek revenge on her attackers, and Kiril realizes that she's still in trouble. Both men aim to stop Katie and persuade her that she would have legal justice. At a nightclub, Katie laces Nikolay's drink with ecstasy. He runs to the bathroom where she drowns him in an unflushed toilet. The next day, Valko sees Katie during a church service and chases after her into the basement, where Katie strikes him with a rock. When he regains consciousness, he's strapped to a metal bed frame. Katie electroshocks his genitals with a stun stick and shoves a large plumber's snake down his throat. She then attaches electrical cables to the bed and electrocutes him.

Ana discovers the burglary, but Katie pushes her into the sewers and binds her to watch Georgy die. Ivan realizes that Katie has escaped; she captures him, ties him to a table and tortures him by crushing his testicles until they rupture. Kiril hears Ivan and Ana's screams and follows them to the sewers. During the torture, Ivan reveals that Ana is his stepmother, who herself was raped by her future husband, Ivan's father, while Nikolay and Georgy were products of Ana's rapes. Katie understands Ana's sadistic nature and begins to torture Ana and Ivan, but at that moment, Kiril arrives and holds Katie at gunpoint. Ivan grabs and begins to strangle Katie, but Kiril kills Ivan, allowing Katie to escape. As Ana, the sole survivor, is arrested by Kiril for her part in her family's crimes, Katie leaves and takes refuge at the U.S. Embassy.

