;''Pillow''
Ching-yi is a nurse who struggles with insomnia after her boyfriend Ho-hong leaves her and disappears following a quarrel between them. After buying a new pillow stuffed with aromatic herbs, she finally manages to fall asleep and starts having dreams of herself having sex with Ho-hong. Over time, the more she uses the pillow, the more her health degenerates. It turns out that Ching-yi had accidentally stabbed Ho-hong in the neck and killed him during the quarrel. She had then cleaned and vacuum-sealed his body in a bag before hiding it in the closet. The man whom Ching-yi has been having sex with in her dreams is actually an incubus-like demon in disguise as her dead boyfriend and he has been draining her "life force". One day, after receiving a mysterious tip-off, security officers force their way into the apartment and find Ching-yi in critical condition.

;''Hide and Seek''
A group of youngsters visit the old primary school which they graduated from. The school is about to be demolished and has been completely abandoned except for the old caretaker still living there. Ignoring the caretaker's warning to leave before dark, they play a variation of hide-and-seek around the campus and unknowingly attract the attention of the ghosts haunting the school. It is revealed at the end that all the youngsters had been lost to the netherworld and did not survive that night.

;''Black Umbrella''
Uncle Lam, a short elderly man carrying a black umbrella, travels along the streets at night during the Ghost Festival. For each good deed he does, he carves a mark on the umbrella handle. He saves a woman from getting knocked down by a bus, alerts the police to a thug beating up a man, and lectures a young robber attempting to rob him and a minibus driver. Later, he encounters Jenny, a prostitute who tricks him into accompanying her to her apartment after pretending to sprain her foot. When he declines her services, she turns nasty and tries to extort money from him. He attempts to leave but she screams for help from her bodyguard, who turns out to be the thug whom Lam confronted earlier. Cornered and about to be attacked, Lam reveals his true identity as a demonic creature. He kills both of them and devours Jenny's innards, much to the horror of those whom enter the room and witness it.

