Troubled by the death of his father in a car accident, outcast teenager Kale Brecht punches his Spanish teacher who invokes his father while reprimanding him at the last week of school. For the assault, Kale is sentenced by a sympathetic judge to three months under house arrest, with an ankle monitor and a proximity sensor.

Happy with his punishment, Kale watches television and plays video games until his frustrated mother Julie cuts his cable and internet access. Kale's boredom leads him to watch his neighborhood using binoculars, including his neighbors Ashley Carlson, whom he is attracted to, and Robert Turner, a single man living alone. One night Kale becomes suspicious of Turner after he returns home in a 1960s Ford Mustang with a dented fender, which matches the description of a car given on a news report of a serial killer at large.

Kale befriends Ashley, and the pair begin to spy on Turner, along with Kale's best friend Ronnie. They observe Turner arrive home with a woman; she is seen running around his house in a panic, but later appears to leave in her car.

His anger is exacerbated by Ashley throwing a party at her house, where Kale observes Ashley flirting and socializing with popular groups from school. Jealous, Kale moves his speakers out onto the roof and blasts non party and chill music in order to disrupt the party. Ashley furiously breaks into the house to turn off the music, and Kale reveals he has been observing her since she moved in and is romantically interested in her. The pair share their first kiss.

The following day, Kale asks Ashley to follow Turner to the supermarket so that Ronnie can break into Turner's car to get the code of the garage controller. Ashley agrees, but is caught in the parking lot by Turner, who intimidates her. She stops wanting to take part in the investigation, shaken by this encounter.

Ronnie realizes he left his phone in Turner's car. He breaks into Turner's house to retrieve it, with Kale watching at a distance. Ronnie gets trapped when the garage door closes. Attempting to rescue him, Kale alerts the police upon leaving his property with the ankle monitor. The police arrive and search the garage, as Kale angrily accuses Turner of murder. However, they only find a bag containing a roadkill deer.

Julie goes across the street to talk to Turner, attempting to ask him not to press charges for Kale's breaking and entering. Ronnie reveals that he has escaped from Turner's house. Kale watches the video Ronnie made while running through Turner's house and notices something wrapped in plastic behind a vent. Upon freezing the frame and zooming in, Kale discovers it to be the corpse of the woman from earlier; proving that he was right all along. Meanwhile, Turner incapacitates Julie and holds her captive. He then enters Kale's house, bashing Ronnie on the head with a baseball bat. After binding and gagging Kale, he reveals his plan to frame him for the murders and make it appear that Kale then killed himself.

Ashley arrives, giving Kale a chance to attack Turner. He throws him from the top of the stairs before Ashley frees him from his bindings. They then jump out of the window into the pool as Turner resurfaces. Kale's ankle monitor again alerts the police. Looking for his mother, he enters Turner's home. In a hidden room, Kale finds ample evidence of Turner's previous murders, including a woman's dress and wig, indicating Turner pretended to be the woman leaving the house the night Kale and Ashley were watching.

The officer who monitors Kale's escapes arrives at the scene, but Turner snaps his neck. Meanwhile, Kale stumbles upon the decaying remains of murder victims and finds his mother bound and gagged in the cellar. Turner appears, slashes Kale in the back and pins him to a wall. Before he can murder again, Julie stabs him in the leg with a screwdriver, allowing Kale to grab gardening shears and impale Turner in the chest, killing him.

Kale is later allowed to cut his ankle bracelet off for good behavior. He gets revenge on his young neighbors, the Greenwood boys, who had pulled pranks on him previously. He then kisses Ashley on his sofa, while Ronnie playfully video tapes them.

