Jim and Linda Hanson are married with two daughters, Megan and Bridgette, but their relationship is faltering. Just after she listens to his phone message as he's on a business trip, Sheriff Reilly informs her Jim died in a car accident the previous day. Linda's mother Joanne comes to help, and Linda falls asleep in the living room.

Waking in bed the next morning, Linda finds Jim downstairs. While she's out driving, Sheriff Reilly pulls her over without recognizing her.
 
The next day, Linda finds an empty bottle of lithium prescribed by Dr. Norman Roth. She goes downstairs to Jim’s wake and then outside to see their girls on the swings. When Bridgette faces her, she has cuts on her face.

The next day, Jim is once again dead and Linda arrives to his funeral at the same time as the casket. She demands that the funeral director open it to confirm that he is inside; there is a scuffle, and Jim's head rolls out. 

At Jim's burial, Linda notices an unknown woman mourning from afar, who flees when approached. Linda finds Dr. Roth's number, but his office is only open on weekdays. Roth later commits her to a mental-health facility. He confides in Reilly that Linda told him Jim was dead the day before the accident, suggesting she murdered him and scarred Bridgette's face.

The next day Linda awakens in bed, with Jim in the shower. She holds him to feel that he is real. After taking the girls to school, she can't find the lithium bottle. She goes to Dr. Roth's office, he doesn't recognize her, and she tells him about her premonitions. Not believing her, he prescribes her lithium. 

At Jim's office, Linda meets the stranger from the funeral, Claire Francis. She observes Jim and Claire's interaction and chemistry. At home, Linda empties the lithium into the sink.

As Linda and the girls run to bring in the laundry from a storm, Bridgette crashes through the glass door, severely cutting her face and hands. Linda rushes her to the emergency room, and when Jim arrives he blames her, although Linda insists she's innocent. She throws away Dr. Roth's number. 

Suddenly, Linda realizes her days are unfolding out of order. She creates a calendar of events from what she remembers, and records Tuesday as the current day. Before Jim goes to bed she begs him not to go on the business trip. She makes him promise to wake her on Wednesday morning before he leaves.

On Friday morning, Linda's mom is there. She updates the calendar, then presents herself at Claire's house, where the woman confesses to their almost-affair. When she tells her friend about it, she suggests he didn't cheat, but it would be very damaging if he had. Linda finds an insurance policy in their safe-deposit box Jim had updated two days earlier, tripling the benefits.  
 
Linda visits their priest, then the funeral home. Returning home to her mother and daughters, she announces she just made Saturday funeral arrangements. Linda asks her mom if she "lets" Jim die, is it the same as killing him? Her mother replies "Jim is already dead".

The next day, Linda suggests that Jim spend time with the girls while she visits their priest, who she hasn't been for a long time. As she is scared, he talks about other cases where people have had such premonitions and he explains she needs to have faith. She then drives to mile marker 220, Jim's accident site, to see what might have happened. 

Jim and the girls return home, and after dinner Linda insists that he tell them he loves them before bed. Outside in the rain, she pleads with him about their relationship, saying they're running out of time. When lightning strikes a power line, it kills the crow she had found dead previously. That night, she tells him her dream about his death. Jim insists it was only a dream and they spend the night together.

Linda wakes up in bed on Wednesday and Jim's note says he has taken the kids to school and will be back tomorrow. She searches for him, calls, but gets his voicemail, so keeps looking. Jim is seen at the bank with the insurance agent. Linda finds their kids are already at school. Jim calls Claire at the hotel and ends it. Then he leaves the message from the beginning of the film. 

As Jim nears the accident site, Linda reaches him by cell phone and they reconcile. She tries to get him to avert the accident, but a fuel-tanker truck jacknives as it approaches Jim's stalled car. It takes off the car's roof and both vehicles explode on impact, killing both drivers.

The film's final scene is set a few months later. Linda recalls the priest's words about faith, and is pregnant.

