On Walter Sparrow's birthday (February 3), his wife Agatha gives him a book titled ''The Number 23'', written by Topsy Kretts, as a birthday present. Walter starts reading the book and notices striking similarities between himself and the main character, a detective named "Fingerling". Fingerling is obsessed with the 23 enigma, the idea that all incidents and events are directly connected to the number 23. Walter too becomes obsessed with the number and attempts to uncover the mystery of the book's author, but he can't find any information. Walter's son, Robin, is interested in the enigma too, but Agatha dismisses it as superstition.

In the book, Fingerling then discovers that his lover, Fabrizia, is having an affair, and he stabs her to death. The police arrest her lover because he found her body and picked up the murder weapon, assuming it was a type of sexual roleplay. Fingerling then prepares to commit suicide by jumping from a hotel balcony, and the book ends abruptly. Walter later learns of a murder victim named Laura Tollins, whose body was never found, and whose murder is similar to the death of Fabrizia in the book. Walter believes that the man who was sent to prison for her murder, Kyle Flinch, wrote the book. Walter visits Flinch in prison, but he denies killing Laura or writing the book.

Robin discovers an address hidden in the book and they hope that it will lead them to the book's true author. When Walter confronts the man, Dr. Sirius Leary, he commits suicide by cutting his own throat. Before dying, Leary tells Agatha to go to a now-abandoned mental institution that he used to work at. At the institute, Agatha discovers a box that has Walter's name on it. Walter discovers a code in the book that tells the reader the location of Laura Tollins' body. Walter and Robin find the skeleton, but when they return with the police, the skeleton is missing. After seeing Agatha washing mud off her hands, she admits that she moved the skeleton. Walter angrily accuses her of being Topsy Kretts. However, Agatha tells Walter that he was really the one who wrote the book. 

Agatha shows Walter the box from the institute that has his name on it. Inside, Walter sees the sources he used to write the book, and he begins having flashes of repressed memories. In room 23 of the hotel in the book, Walter finds the missing final chapter of the book scribbled under the wallpaper. Long ago, he was obsessed with the 23 enigma because it drove his father to suicide. He was also involved with Laura Tollins, but she left him for Flinch, resulting in him stabbing her to death. After Flinch is sent to prison for the murder, Walter wrote the book in the room as an elaborate suicide note, changing the details of his confession into a deranged fantasy. Walter then jumped off the balcony, but he survived. The resulting brain damage left him with amnesia, and he was sent to the institute to recover, and met Agatha after being released. Dr. Leary, one of Walter's doctors, read the book and became obsessed with the number, eventually publishing the book under the name Topsy Kretts.

Agatha arrives, and she tells Walter that he has changed, which is why she hid the skeleton. Convinced that he will kill again, Walter attempts to commit suicide by running into the path of a bus. However, Walter does not go through with it, not wanting his son to lose a father like he did, and Walter finally exclaims that 23 is just a number. Walter turns himself in to the police for the murder of Laura Tollins, and while awaiting sentencing, his lawyer tells him that the judge will go easy on him because he confessed. Walter declares that this is not the happiest ending, but it is the right one, and expresses hope that things will return to normal for his family once he is released from prison. Laura Tollins' body is finally laid to rest in the cemetery, and Flinch is present, having been released from prison and now at peace.

The credits begin with a Bible verse (Numbers 32:23), which reads: "Be sure your sin will find you out.".

