The book begins with Momoko talking about her life as a lolita living in a small town in the Japanese countryside. She explains that her father used to sell bootleg clothes, until he ran into legal trouble and had to flee the city to Shimotsuma, a rural area. She is the only lolita in her town and has no friends, but she doesn't care and believes that her lolita clothes are all she needs to make her happy. She is obsessed with getting clothes from Baby, The Stars Shine Bright, her favorite clothing boutique. When she runs out of money, she decides to sell some of her father's old merchandise. Ichigo, a member of an all-female biker gang, sees an ad for the sale and visits to buy some bootleg apparel and is extremely impressed. She soon shows up at Momoko's house almost daily to buy things for the members of her gang. They become closer friends and embark on a journey to a Baby, The Stars Shine Bright store in Tokyo, where Momoko meets the brand's designer (based off one of the brand's real life founders, Akinori Isobe). Because of her skill with embroidery, Momoko is recruited to embroider a dress. At a pachinko parlour, Ichigo meets a gangster with a pompadour and falls in love. However, she soon discovers that he is the fiancée of her gang leader. Once their current leader is married, she will resign from her role as leader. Ichigo is unhappy with the new leadership, and dislikes the direction they want to take the gang. 

Heartbroken by the loss of her first love and inspired by Momoko's independence, Ichigo plans to leave the gang. To do this, she accepts their "challenge," which involves a ritualistic beating. Momoko finds out about the challenge and goes to Ichigo's aid. After scaring the gang by pretending to be the daughter of a famous gangster, Momoko is considered the winner, and the two girls ride off laughing.

When it comes time for Momoko to show the designer her embroidery, she arrives on time and everyone loves her work. Ultimately, she decides she is happier wearing the clothing than making it. As for Ichigo, she is offered to work as a model for ''Baby, The Stars Shine Bright'' after she impresses a cameraman. On her first day of work, she leaves bruises on five of the crew members but nonetheless becomes sought after by other brands. The movie ends with an image of Momoko and Ichigo riding along the road and laughing.

