Following her return home, Sakura Matou fuses with the Shadow after killing her brother, Shinji, for his attempted rape. Shirou Emiya finds Shinji's body and is taunted by Zouken Matou for his role in Sakura's corruption, but Shirou is  rescued from him by Rider. Afterward, Zouken sends the corrupted Sakura to kidnap Illyasviel von Einzbern - to be a vessel for the Holy Grail like her mother was - and she attacks the Emiya household with Saber Alter; Sakura subdues her sister, Rin Tohsaka, and Illya surrenders to save everyone. Although bound to protect Shirou by Sakura's final command spell, Rider refuses to fight Sakura directly, so Shirou reluctantly asks Kirei Kotomine for help.

Raiding the ruined Einzbern castle, Kirei distracts Zouken and his Servant Assassin while Shirou rescues Illya, but Sakura sends a now-corrupted Berserker to chase them. Despite knowing it will eventually kill him, a desperate Shirou unseals Archer's transplanted left arm, replicating Berserker's weapon and strength with Archer's magic to defeat him. Kirei drives off Assassin by destroying Zouken's body, recalling his wish for the Grail - to satisfy his "twisted" nature. Sakura confronts Kirei and destroys his artificial heart from the last Holy Grail War, but fails to finish him off when Berserker's defeat incapacitates her.

Shirou learns from Illya and Rin that Sakura is influenced through the shadow by an evil entity known as Angra Mainyu - an Avenger-class Servant summoned by the Einzbern family in a prior war. Seeking to subdue Sakura before she gives birth to Angra Mainyu, Rin and Illya combine their abilities to show Shirou their family's recorded memories, revealing that the Holy Grail was conceived to reach the "Root" of all knowledge. Shirou uses the visions to recreate the weapon of the oldest magus, the Jeweled Sword Zelretch, at the cost of continual damage from Archer's arm. Meanwhile, Zouken plots to make Sakura his new vessel, revealing his actual body near Sakura's heart. However, Sakura retaliates by absorbing Assassin with the Shadow before ripping Zouken out of her chest and crushing him.

After a brief confrontation, Shirou convinces Rider that he will save Sakura no matter what, securing her help along with Rin. The group arrives at Fuyuki Cave, where the tainted Grail waits, but Saber Alter bars their way and only lets Rin pass on Sakura's orders. Working together, Shirou and Rider subdue Saber Alter long enough for Shirou to kill his former Servant. Confronting Sakura, Rin uses the Jeweled Sword to cut through Sakura's shadow minions - but after Sakura professes to feeling abandoned by the world, Rin can't bring herself to kill her and is impaled while apologizing for failing as a sister. Overcome with guilt, Sakura tries sacrificing herself to stop Angra Mainyu but is stopped by Shirou; insisting they both atone by living, he projects Caster's sorcery-nullifying Rule Breaker and severs Sakura's link to The Shadow.

Despite the Shadow being purged from Sakura, Angra Mainyu still tries to emerge from the Holy Grail. Rider takes Rin and Sakura to safety while Shirou stays to destroy The Holy Grail, but a dying Kirei interferes. Shirou defeats Kirei after a vicious fistfight, the latter declaring Shirou the winner of the Holy Grail War before dying. Before Shirou can destroy the Grail at the cost of his life, Illya stops him. Revealing herself as Shirou's older sister and vowing to protect him, Illya performs the Heaven's Feel ritual to save Shirou by separating his soul from his dying body, in turn destroying the Holy Grail. As she passes on, Illya reunites with the spirit of her mother Irisviel.

In the aftermath, Rin and Sakura revive Shirou by giving his recovered soul an artificial body provided by Touko Aozaki. Resuming their relationship, Shirou and Sakura - along with Rin, Taiga, and a now-incarnated Rider - go to see the cherry blossoms as Shirou promised.

