Engels Ramasamy, a Nagercoil-based news anchor, lives with his single mother, paternal grandfather and three sisters. Many girls rejected Engels’ marriage proposal because his family is poor and his father abandoned him. The family plans to leave for the Venkateswara Temple, Tirupati for the fourth time, only to cancel it as the youngest sister gets her first period. They soon realise that they should go to their family deity Mookuthi Amman's temple to seek good luck. The temple is located in a hilly area called Vellimalai, 13.9 kilometres from Nagercoil. So they head there but find the temple dilapidated. The family cleans the temple, and as per the custom, they stay for the night. While they sleep, Mookuthi Amman appears in human form at the temple, which Engels witnesses. He soon realises that only he can see her as he is a god-chosen child. She decides to improve his family's prospects, but in return, Engels must popularise her temple. After he complies, he decides to make his family members' dreams come true with the help of Amman, and both Engels and Amman head back to Nagercoil by bus.

After reaching home, Engels asks the eldest of the three sisters what she wants. Engels asked her that question because she had made pongal, from milk flowing out of an ant-hill near the temple which Amman liked and the ant-hill made the temple famous. That Pongal later became the prasadam at the temple. A fair was organized after that, with concerts by singer L. R. Eswari. The eldest sister asks for a day-off as she dropped out of school, she has been taking care of household and has not enjoyed life like the other family members. Amman tells him that not all men appreciate what women do for them every day. After that, he guarantees her sister weekly off on Sundays.

Bhagavathi Baba, a godman, enters the Mookuthi Amman temple and announces that he will build a town named Panchavanam, which will destroy 148 villages around the temple in Vellimalai. This angers Engels, who has tried to reveal his scams for the past six years. Amman decides to help Engels expose Baba. The next day, she makes herself visible to Engels' family members. They soon decide to take down Baba together. Once, Engels goes to a meeting with Baba but sees his father as a follower of Baba who lied to his family that he left him. He narrates the story to his mother. Amman makes a plan, and according to the plan, Engels' mother and sisters infiltrate Baba's group posing as Baba followers and start taking videos of him behaving badly in front of the other members without him noticing. Engels gets employed at Star Vijay and does a daily show with Baba, in which people call in for solutions to their issues.

During the first episode, a man phones Baba to convince his father to take his kidney at the hospital, but the man married a girl of another religion and as a result, does not want his kidney. Baba then tells the father that he has done the right thing in not accepting his kidney, thus proving that he is a bigot. Later on, Engels proves to the public that Baba's Panchavanam project is against the law and that Baba does not even know a line of the Bhagavad Gita.

The next day, Engels reveals even darker truths about Baba. Baba then challenges Engels to answer three questions at the groundbreaking ceremony of Panchavanam, and if he answers those questions, he will not launch Panchavanam. After the episode's filming, Baba learns of Engels' family's plans to stop him. Engels immediately tells the others to escape Baba's class. But during the escape, their car runs out of fuel, and Baba's henchmen catch them. Engels calls for Amman, and she kills the henchmen using her powers, allowing the family to reach Panchavanam's groundbreaking ceremony in time. There, Baba reveals that the extraordinary events that made the Mookuthi Amman temple famous were all staged by Engels, even though the events happened miraculously without human intervention. When asked why he staged the events, Mookuthi Amman comes in the form of a woman and arrives. She exposes him by telling everyone that there is no need for men like Baba to protect God, and everyone should pray to God out of faith and not fear, after which she disappears into dust. After her speech, Baba becomes a public enemy. The next day, Amman spots Engels and asks him for his final wish before returning to her abode. He replies that he is grateful for what he has, and Amman vanishes. Engels then tells the viewers that God will surely come, because you too are God's chosen child.

