In 2005, potentially habitable "Planet G" is discovered, and in 2006, a communications array to reach any extraterrestrial life is built in Oahu. There, Alex Hopper is arrested while attempting to impress  Samantha "Sam" Shane, daughter of Admiral Terrance Shane. Alex’s brother, Commander Stone Hopper, forces Alex to join the U.S. Navy. Six years later, Alex is a lieutenant aboard the {{USS|John Paul Jones|DDG-53|6}} and in a relationship with Sam, a physical therapist working with wounded veterans. While Stone is a model officer commanding the {{USS|Sampson|DDG-102|6}}, the rebellious Alex, while showing plenty of potential, is facing a disciplinary discharge.

During the 2012 RIMPAC exercise, five alien spacecraft arrive. Their communications ship hits a satellite and crashes through the Bank of China Tower in Hong Kong, while the others plunge into the waters off the coast of Hawaii. ''Sampson'', ''John Paul Jones'', and Japanese destroyer JDS {{ship|JDS|Myōkō||2}} discover a floating structure that generates an impenetrable force field isolating the Hawaiian Islands and the three destroyers from the rest of the world, and jamming all radar and communications inside. Three alien warships surface and open fire; ''Myōkō'' is destroyed, ''Sampson'' is lost with all hands including Stone, and ''John Paul Jones''’ command crew are killed, leaving Alex to reluctantly assume command as the highest-ranking sailor on board. ''John Paul Jones'' disengages to recover ''Myōkō''’s survivors, including Captain Yugi Nagata, while alien drones destroy Oahu’s military bases.

Hiking near the communications array, Sam and retired US Army lieutenant colonel and double amputee Mick Canales discover the aliens' presence. They encounter scientist Cal Zapata, who reveals the aliens have taken over the array to re-establish communications with their home planet. The ''John Paul Jones''’ crew captures an alien which telepathically links with Alex, revealing their history of conquering worlds. More aliens board and retrieve their comrade while one starts sabotaging the ship. Its armored suit proves impervious to small-arms fire but is obliterated by the destroyer’s 5-inch gun, and the captured alien's helmet reveals their eyes are sensitive to sunlight. Ashore, Sam, Mick, and Zapata recover his spectrum analyzer, using it to radio ''John Paul Jones'' that the aliens will contact their planet and most likely call for reinforcements when the facility’s satellite is in position in four hours.

As night falls, Captain Nagata suggests using the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) tsunami warning buoys around Hawaii to track the warships without radar; this plan works and allows ''John Paul Jones'' to destroy two of them. The third proves too elusive, so they lure it into facing east as the sun rises. Alex and Nagata shoot out its bridge windows with sniper rifles, blinding its crew with sunlight and allowing ''John Paul Jones'' to destroy it. The destroyer then attempts to target the communications array, but is sunk by drones launched from the alien structure emitting the force field; Alex, Nagata, and several other sailors barely escape.

The survivors commandeer the decommissioned World War II battleship {{USS|Missouri|BB-63|6}} with the aid of retired Navy veterans. The floating structure is revealed to be a giant mothership, but ''Missouri'' disables the force field, allowing Admiral Shane to scramble fighter jets from the aircraft carrier {{USS|Ronald Reagan}}. The battleship’s turret carrying the ship’s last shell is disabled, forcing the sailors to carry the shell to the ship's last functioning turret. Sam, Mick, and Cal stall the aliens at the array, where Mick kills an alien soldier. Alex uses the final shell to destroy the array, rendering the ''Missouri'' defenseless, but the mothership’s drones are destroyed by Boeing F/A-18 fighter jets, as reinforcements carpet bomb the mothership, eliminating the alien threat.

Alex is promoted to lieutenant commander and presented with a Silver Star and his brother's posthumous Navy Cross. Admiral Shane promises Alex will soon have a ship of his own, while he is also recommended to become a Navy SEAL. Alex asks him for Sam’s hand in marriage, and the admiral initially refuses but invites Alex to lunch.

