{{Long plot|date=January 2021}}
Former smuggler Chris Farraday lives a peaceful life with his wife, Kate, and their two sons in New Orleans. They learn that Kate's brother Andy was smuggling drugs, but disposed of them in the Mississippi River during a surprise inspection by U.S. Customs and Border Protection.

Andy's boss, Tim Briggs threatens to kill Chris's family if Andy does not reimburse him for the drugs. Chris plans to smuggle $10 million in fake bills from Panama into the U.S. in a van. He asks former partner Sebastian Abney, who owns a construction business, to fund the scheme before joining the crew of a cargo ship with Andy and partners Danny and Davis. After Briggs breaks into Chris's house and intimidates Kate and their children, they move into Sebastian's house for safety.

In Panama, Chris creates a diversion on the ship so he, Andy, and Danny can leave and retrieve the fake bills. Chris and Danny eventually go to meet an unstable crime lord named Gonzalo for the fakes, leaving Andy in the van with their money. Briggs calls Andy, threatening to kill one of Chris's sons if Andy doesn't go to another address to buy cocaine with the money. With Andy and the money gone, Chris agrees to help Gonzalo rob an armored car in exchange for the fake bills. Gonzalo and his men are killed during the heist, but Chris and Danny escape with the van, the fake bills, and the Jackson Pollock painting Gonzalo was trying to steal, loading it all onto the cargo ship.

Meanwhile, it's revealed that Sebastian is in debt to gangster Jim Church and was secretly working with Briggs. Sebastian hears that Chris plans to dump the cocaine and tells Briggs to threaten Kate in order to stop Chris from doing so. Rattled, Kate leaves Sebastian's with the kids but when she goes back to retrieve some personal items, he drunkenly confronts her and accidentally knocks her out against a bathtub. 

Sebastian contacts the ship's captain, Camp, and tells him of the cocaine, promising him a share if he secures it. Camp calls Customs to inspect the ship in New Orleans. The Customs agents find the spot where Chris' team hid the bills, but it's empty. They detain Chris and search the van, but thinking the painting is just a tarp, ignore it and let Chris go. 

Chris and Andy are captured by Briggs, who demands the cocaine. Chris takes Briggs to Camp's house, having made a duplicate key while on the ship, and activates the security system. After giving Briggs and his gang the cocaine, Chris sneaks out. Camp awakens to the noise and encounters the gang as the police arrive; they're all arrested for cocaine possession.

Having figured out Sebastian was working with Briggs, Chris drives to Sebastian's house, then his job site, looking for Kate. Sebastian, thinking her dead, had dumped Kate's body in a foundation at the site. Chris beats him up for his betrayal before locating and saving Kate. Sebastian is arrested and sent to prison, where he is greeted by a gang. 

Danny and Davis retrieve the fake bills which Chris had dumped into the Mississippi River reaching New Orleans. At a U.S. Customs auction, Andy buys the van for $750 and finds the painting still in it while Chris sells the bills to Church for $3 million. Church asks about the missing painting and tells Chris it can be fenced for over $20 million on the black market. With the money, Chris, Kate, and their children begin a new life in a waterfront house.

