Sightless aliens with sharp hearing and impenetrable armor plating have taken over the planet and killed most of the human population. The Abbott family – mother Evelyn, father Lee, deaf daughter Regan, and sons Marcus and Beau – live on their isolated farm in the middle of a forest in upstate New York, and have survived by taking precautions such as laying sand paths to avoid stepping on crunching leaves and using American Sign Language when communicating.

When the family goes into the nearby town for supplies, Beau finds a toy space shuttle, but Lee makes him leave it behind due to the noise it would make if powered on. As they are getting ready to leave, Regan secretly gives him back the toy, but without its batteries. When they leave, Beau takes back the batteries without anyone noticing. While walking back home, Beau turns on the space shuttle, which starts making noise. Almost immediately, Beau is killed by a nearby creature.

Over a year after Beau's death, the family has seemingly gone back to normal, with Evelyn several months pregnant. Marcus reluctantly goes fishing with Lee while Regan, upset that she cannot go, visits Beau's grave. While everybody is gone, Evelyn goes into labor and while heading to the basement, she accidentally steps on a nail and smashes a photo frame, alerting nearby creatures in the area. Holding back her tears in agony, Evelyn enters the basement to flip a switch, turning the surrounding lights around the house red. She bypasses a creature in the house using an egg timer, and Marcus and Lee drive the creature out of the house using fireworks, allowing Evelyn to safely give birth to her baby.

Regan, seeing the fireworks, runs back to the house. Lee then enters the house and brings the baby and Evelyn into a hiding spot under the floor in the barn outside. The baby cries, alerting a creature into the barn. This creature fails to find the source, but breaks some water pipes. Evelyn wakes up in the flooded hideout with the creature still inside and is forced to hide behind the falling water to mask her sound.

Marcus and Regan go to the top of a corn silo and light a signal fire to other distant farms, but Marcus falls into the silo and gets stuck in the corn. The creature in the hideout runs towards the silo and attacks Regan and Marcus. The creature's disruptive effect on electronics causes Regan's cochlear implant to emit a high pitched noise which causes the creature to reel in pain and retreat, breaking a hole in the silo which frees the children. Lee finds Regan and Marcus, directing them to the truck, and is then wounded by a creature. The creature proceeds to ambush the vehicle due to Marcus’ screams, but Lee instead proceeds to yell to draw the creature’s attention, sacrificing himself to the creature in order to allow Marcus and Regan to coast in the truck back to the house safely.

Making their way back to their house and being greeted by Evelyn, they hear the screeches of a nearby creature. They make their way back into the house, where the creature enters and ambushes them. Regan, realizing the weakness the creature had to the high-pitched noise from her cochlear implant, proceeds to remove her implant and place it on a microphone, amplifying the high pitched noise that causes the creature to reel in pain and expose its soft vulnerable inner mouth, allowing Evelyn to shoot it dead. Now armed with a new weapon against the creatures, the family prepare to defend themselves from other creatures.

