While working as parking valets at a restaurant, Sean Falco and Derek Sandoval secretly use the cars entrusted to them by customers to burgle their homes. On one night, however, Sean finds more than he bargained for when he breaks into the house of wealthy patron Cale Erendreich and discovers a woman named Katie being held captive. Unable to free Katie, Sean abandons her, but notifies the police of his discovery. When the police are unable to find any evidence of Katie's abduction, Sean contacts the FBI and files a missing persons report for her.

Cale, meanwhile, brings Katie to a secluded cabin and becomes aware of Sean's knowledge of her abduction. Motivated by a desire to break people down, Cale begins working to destroy Sean's life, including having Sean, Derek, and Sean's parents fired from their jobs. He also savagely beats Riley Seabrook, Sean's girlfriend, after ruining their relationship by leaking a topless photo of her. Cale then kills Derek and his family in their home and stages their deaths as a murder-suicide. Sean is able to take a screenshot of Cale and send it to the FBI.

When Cale fails in his attempt to kill Sean with a bomb, Sean manages to use the GPS in Cale's car to find the cabin where Katie is being held captive. Sean heads off to save her after, while a team of FBI agents also travel to the cabin after deducing that Cale is responsible for a series of similar disappearances. The FBI discover that the property is in the name of Cale's family but are unable to enter the private property without a warrant. Sean finds Katie upon entering the cabin, only to be knocked out by Cale, who reveals that he intends to kill Katie and frame Sean for her murder, along with the deaths of his previous victims. Katie, however, survives Cale's attempt at killing her and frees Sean. As Sean and Katie flee the cabin, Cale pursues. Chasing Sean and Katie through the woods, Cale is ultimately overpowered by Sean and knocked unconscious.

The sound of Cale's gun is also heard by the FBI team, who are able to use the gunshot's noise as probable cause to enter the property. After finding Sean and Katie, the team enters the cabin, where they discover Cale chained up like his victims.

