Sheila is a recently divorced bank teller who lives with her teenage son Vince. She gets frequently chastised for insignificant work errors by her bosses and intimidated by Vince's girlfriend Gwen. After finding out about her ex-husband's new girlfriend and secretly seeing Vince performing oral sex on Gwen, she visits the department store Dentley and Soper's to buy a dress in the sales for a date. Assisted by enigmatic store clerk Miss Luckmoore, Sheila is drawn to a beautiful, flowing red dress, which Luckmoore convinces her to purchase. Sheila notices a strange rash on her chest after wearing the dress. Her washing machine later breaks down when trying to wash it, resulting in Sheila injuring her hand. At night, the store clerks are shown cleaning a lifelike mannequin, which appears to menstruate, as the elderly proprietor Mr Lundy observes and masturbates.

When returning to shop at the store, Sheila learns that there is only one version of the dress and that the store model was killed after wearing it for the store catalogue. Sheila goes on a date with her new suitor Zach while Gwen and Vince have sex. As Gwen climaxes, the dress floats above her and tries to suffocate her. When Sheila and Zach go for a walk together, she is attacked by a German Shepherd, which cuts her leg and rips the dress in the process. Later that day, Vince returns home with the dress, which has been magically repaired. After hearing the dress move about in the wardrobe at night, an unsettled Sheila attempts to return the dress to the store but is refused. With the dress in her car boot, Sheila is killed in an accident en route to spending the night with Zach.

The dress comes into the possession of washing machine repairman Reg Speaks, who is made by his friends to wear it on his stag night. He has a difficult social life, struck with the magical ability to put people into a trance when he explains the mechanics of a washing machine; he also struggles to have sex with his fiancée Babs, who takes a liking to the dress and wears it to shop at Dentley and Soper's. Luckmoore rebukes Babs for shopping near closing time but is convinced by Lundy to let her stay. Meanwhile, Reg gets hypnotized at home by the department store's TV advertisement and dies from carbon monoxide poisoning caused by his boiler. Babs recounts to Luckmoore a disturbing dream in which she becomes the model for the store catalogue but gets thinner and ends up being buried in the store. Babs goes into the fitting room while a fight between patrons breaks out in the store and quickly spirals into looting.

The dress catches fire and the flames spread quickly around the store. Babs burns to death in her changing room, while Luckmoore flees down into the dumbwaiter with a dismembered mannequin. As she descends deeper into the store, she sees the dead store model, Sheila, Reg, and Babs stitching together the dress from threads made of their blood, along with several unattended sewing stations implied to be for future wearers of the dress. A fireman observes the destroyed store and discovers the dress undamaged amongst the rubble.

