In the fictional small town of Winsford, Massachusetts, Hallie Knudsen, Katie Jensen and their friends Chloe and Wren approach a group of boys to probe their evening plans, but they are told that it is top secret. During a sleepover in the basement of Katie's abode, the girls discuss the boys' intentions to summon the Slender Man, a tall, thin, horrifying supernatural being with a featureless visage who is infamously known throughout the Internet as a menacing individual who primarily targets innocent children by seducing and then abducting them; they subsequently visit a website containing a link to a disturbing video that demonstrates how he can be reached. The following week, on a class field trip to the historic Clifton Cemetery, Katie becomes haunted by a paranormal presence in the trees. A short amount of time passes before she disappears without a trace, forcing the entire crowd of students to stay behind for hours until the police arrive to begin examining the premises. Deciding to hunt for clues at her dwelling, the other three recover her laptop, discovering that Katie, who had been unhappily living alone with her alcoholic father, had become involved in the occult, developing an unhealthy obsession with Slender Man sightings and videos and messaging Allison Riley, also identifiable by her online handle "AleeyKat93", regarding methods of reaching the character, who would spirit her away from her currently miserable environment.

Allison explains that he infects people’s minds similar to a virus, eventually either driving them completely insane or kidnapping them, and to retrieve Katie from his clutches, the trio need to "unveil themselves", which they interpret as surrendering an item that is very special to each of them. Wren brings a piece of handmade pottery that she created when she was five years old, Chloe offers a picture of her and her father taken prior to his passing a few months afterwards, and Hallie relinquishes her younger sister Lizzie’s blanket, woven by their grandmother upon her birth. Having researched Slender Man mythology, Wren instructs Hallie and Chloe to don blindfolds and warns the pair against removing them or opening their eyes to look directly at his face while contacting him, even if they hear something, for fear of death or madness. However, Chloe panics and flees, meeting the Slender Man up close. Sometime later, he enters Chloe's house and drives her mad.

Wren, suffering from frightening visions, researches further about the figure in the local library, where it attacks her, and Hallie unsuccessfully attempts to move on from the issue by spending the night with her boyfriend Tom, for which Wren chastises her. Meanwhile, Lizzie suffers a major panic attack and is hospitalized and sedated. Scouring her computer, Hallie discovers that Wren, aided by Lizzie, had attempted to contact the Slender Man.

Heading to Wren's residence to confront her, Hallie encounters information that Wren gathered in her bedroom concerning Slender Man and his victims, one of whom was Allison Riley, a psychiatric patient who claimed that the malevolent entity absconded with nine of her peers. After Hallie dissuades her from committing suicide, Wren, feeling guilty for causing the recent chain of events, breaks down and confesses that Lizzie approached her with interest in the Slender Man and asked that she accompany her to the woods, where she offered her teddy bear to him. She then admits that the sacrifices they gave him earlier were insufficient, as he will only rest once he has seized all of them physically. Suddenly, Slender Man shatters the glass window and kidnaps her, pulling her outside with his tentacles appearing in the shape of branches. Hallie, now realizing that her sole available option for rescuing Lizzie is to sacrifice herself to him, ventures into the wooded area to deal with him upfront. Encountering the monster, she pleads for him to take her instead. He obliges, and moves to grab her as she tries to escape. Using his enormous appendages to traverse the forest like a spider, he grabs and ensnares her, both of them fusing together as a tree. Lizzie awakens in the hospital screaming for her sister, but ultimately makes a successful recovery and reflects on what happened to the quartet.

