During the German Autumn of 1977, Susie Bannion, an American from a Mennonite family in Ohio, is admitted at the Markos Dance Academy in West Berlin. The academy is reeling from the disappearance of a student, Patricia Hingle, who vanished after telling her psychotherapist, Josef Klemperer, that the academy is controlled by a coven of witches. Journals left by Patricia in Klemperer's office detail The Three Mothers, a trio of witches who predate Christianity: ''Mater Suspiriorum'', ''Mater Tenebrarum'', and ''Mater Lachrymarum''. Klemperer, initially dismissive of Patricia's claims, becomes suspicious of the academy after her disappearance.

During rehearsal, a Soviet student, Olga, becomes indignant with the lead choreographer, Madame Blanc, and storms out of the studio. Olga attempts to leave, but finds herself trapped alone in a room lined with mirrors. Blanc, meanwhile, resumes the rehearsal, during which Susie performs an aggressive dance; her movements begin physically inflicting Olga, ravaging her body and damaging her organs and bones. Several of the academy's matrons drag Olga's mangled body away with large hooks. Later, the matrons hold an informal election for who is to serve as the coven's new leader. The vote is between Madame Blanc and Mother Markos, an aged and grossly disfigured witch who has long controlled the coven, and for whom the academy is named; Markos wins the popular vote. Afterwards, Miss Griffith, the most sheepish of the matrons, commits suicide.

Susie befriends her classmate Sara, and quickly climbs the ranks as Blanc's protégée; she is appointed the lead of the academy's upcoming piece, ''Volk''. Meanwhile, Sara grows suspicious of the matrons after a meeting with Klemperer and uncovers clandestine hallways in the building where she discovers esoteric relics. Klemperer attends the public performance of ''Volk''. Immediately prior, Sara explores a passageway leading into catacombs where she finds a disfigured Patricia. Sara attempts to flee, but the matrons manifest holes in the floor that cause her to fall and fracture her leg. The performance begins without her, but she emerges midway through the piece, dancing her part with robotic precision on a broken leg; her eyes have changed from brown to blue, and Susie's blue to brown. The dance ends abruptly when Sara collapses in pain. As Klemperer exits, he sees Sara's changed eyes and leaves unnerved. Blanc subsequently chastises Susie for intervening in the matrons' efforts to manipulate Sara's body.

The next day, Susie attends a celebratory dinner with the matrons. Meanwhile, Klemperer encounters Anke, his presumed-deceased wife, at his dacha in East Germany. She tells him she faked her death after fleeing the Nazis and started a new life in England. They walk together, passing through a security checkpoint into West Berlin without being noticed. Klemperer realizes the two have arrived at the Markos Academy; before his eyes, he realizes Anke is, in fact, Miss Huller, one of the matrons, and that he has been lured there to bear witness to an impending witches' sabbath.

After the dinner, Susie returns to the academy and is led to a chamber where Blanc and the other matrons await with an incapacitated Klemperer. Overlooking the scene is Mother Markos{{em dash}}Susie is to be her new vessel. Susie renounces her own mother, who simultaneously succumbs on her deathbed in Ohio. The matrons disembowel Sara to begin the sabbath, but Blanc senses something is wrong. Markos nearly decapitates Blanc when she is resistant to proceed. As Blanc bleeds profusely, Susie reveals that she, not Markos, is Mother Suspiriorum; she is there to claim the academy and eradicate Markos. Susie summons Death, killing Markos and her most faithful matrons, sparing only those devoted to Blanc. Patricia, Olga, and Sara, each physically ravaged, plead to die, which Susie grants them.

The following day, the academy resumes operations as usual. Miss Vendegast discovers Blanc on the verge of death, but still alive. Meanwhile, Klemperer, who was spared and now confined to his bed, is met by Susie at his home. She recounts to him the fate of Anke, who died at the Theresienstadt concentration camp. Upon her touching him, he suffers a violent seizure that erases his memories, and Susie leaves. Susie stares approvingly at something outside the academy.

