Jonas Taylor is a rescue diver who attempts to save the crew of a damaged nuclear submarine when he sees the hull being rammed by an unidentified creature. Two of his crew are trapped in the damaged sub, but Jonas is forced to flee, realizing that attempting rescue would result in the deaths of everyone he has already saved. Jonas' account of the story is dismissed by fellow survivor Dr. Heller, who denounces his actions as the result of pressure-induced psychosis.

Five years later, billionaire Jack Morris meets Dr. Minway Zhang at the underwater research facility Mana One. Zhang and his oceanographer daughter Suyin supervise a mission to explore what turns out to be a deeper section of the Mariana Trench, previously concealed by a thermocline of hydrogen sulfide. The mission submersible is piloted by Japanese scientist Toshi, an American scientist referred to as "The Wall," and Jonas' ex-wife Lori. They discover an abundance of never-before-seen flora and fauna below the thermocline, but an attack by a large, unidentified creature causes the submersible to lose contact with Mana One. Jonas' old friend and Mana One operations manager, James "Mac" Mackreides, suggests sending Jonas down to attempt a rescue.

Despite the objections of Heller (now a member of the Mana One crew), Zhang and Mac venture to Thailand to recruit Jonas, who is now a drunken loner. Jonas is initially skeptical but relents after listening to a taped recording containing the dialogue between Lori, her crew and Mana One. Suyin attempts the rescue in their absence but is attacked by a giant squid. Before the squid can crush her submersible, it is killed by an enormous shark. Having agreed to help, Jonas breaches the thermocline and reaches the sunken submersible. When the shark returns and attacks the submersible before the evacuation has been completed, Toshi sacrifices himself to help the others escape.

Returning to Mana One, the crew discovers the giant shark is a megalodon or "Meg", a prehistoric species of shark previously believed to be extinct. While discussing how to address it, Suyin's daughter Meiying encounters and narrowly avoids an attack from the shark outside Mana One's underwater tunnels. The crew realizes that the Meg pursued them through a temporary break they caused in the thermocline and resolves to go out and track the Meg before killing it with poison.  After the Meg destroys three nearby shark fin-fishing ships, Jonas enters the water to shoot the Meg with a tracker, and then the team puts Suyin in a shark-proof tank so she can shoot the Meg with poison. However, the mission goes awry when the shark attacks the cage and cracks Suyin's mask, causing her to lose oxygen. She manages to poison the shark just as Jonas manages to get her out of the cage. The Meg returns and attacks Jonas and Suyin, but it gets snagged on the cage's line and dies from the poison.

But in their moment of triumph, a second larger Meg (revealed to be the individual that attacked the group earlier back at the trench) emerges, devouring The Wall and the dead Meg, critically wounding Zhang and destroying the crew's ship. Heller sacrifices himself by distracting the Meg to save fellow crew member Jaxx. Mac swims out to a floating lifeboat so that he and the crew can regroup at Mana One, though Zhang dies on the way. The shark gives chase, but it is deterred by a helicopter Morris called in. Back at the station, Morris claims that he has informed all the neighbouring governments about the Meg and that they have sent two destroyers to torpedo the shark while secretly enlisting a mercenary team to kill the shark with depth charges, but they accidentally kill a whale. Realizing the Meg is near, the team speeds away but Morris falls overboard and is eaten. The team soon learns of Morris' deceit and resolves to kill the Meg themselves.

The Meg attacks a crowded beach in Sanya Bay in China and devours several beachgoers before the Mana One crew uses a whale call to divert its attention toward them. Jonas and Suyin board submersibles and work together to kill the Meg, but Suyin is forced to break off to save the others when a helicopter crashing into their ship forces them into the water. Jonas takes on the Meg alone and despite his submarine taking damage, he wounds the beast with his damaged submersible and stabs it in the eye, spilling its blood and attracting a shiver of modern sharks that devour the dying Meg.

Jonas reunites with the rest of the Mana One crew on a passing wedding boat and considers taking a vacation with Suyin and Meiying. Meanwhile, in the water, a passing Meg is heard, suggesting that more than two escaped the trench.

