Anna spends her childhood confined to an attic by her father. He tells her that a child-eating monster called "The Wildling" roams the forest. When Anna reaches puberty, "Daddy" begins giving Anna daily injections of leuprorelin to prevent her body from maturing, explaining that he is treating her "illness." Anna suffers terrible side effects from the injections and asks "Daddy" to kill her. "Daddy" cannot bring himself to shoot her and instead turns the gun on himself and pulls the trigger.

Anna awakens in hospital, where she learns that "Daddy" has survived his suicide attempt, but is in critical condition. Anna accepts the offer of Sheriff Ellen Cooper to temporarily stay at her home until her relatives can be identified and located. She befriends Ellen's younger brother Ray and attends high school with him. When Anna finally enters puberty, she develops superhuman hearing and feels drawn to the forest and the Northern Lights. A DNA test later reveals that "Daddy" is not Anna's biological father. 

Ray takes Anna to a party, having been invited by a fellow schoolmate earlier that day. Ray and Anna share a brief kiss before noticing Anna's mouth bleeding. After rushing to the bathroom, Anna loses several teeth and flees out the window. While wandering outside the house in a forest nearby, local bully Lawrence tries to rape her, but she rips out his throat with her teeth. Confused and frightened, Anna realizes that sharper teeth are pushing out her human teeth and her nails are slowly becoming claw-like.

In the forest, Anna encounters a one-eyed outdoorsman in a wolf pelt. He reveals to her that he has not seen one of her kind since the townspeople conducted "the purge" sixteen years ago, and tells her she will find her mother in a nearby cave. Anna discovers a fanged skull with a bullet hole in the forehead, and she suddenly remembers "Daddy" shooting her mother. "Daddy", who participated in the purge, could not bring himself to shoot the human-looking baby and instead raised her as his daughter and kept her hidden from the outside world.

Anna returns to Ellen's home, where she is handcuffed and taken to jail. Ellen apologizes to Anna and explains that the police have discovered Lawrence's body beside the dress Anna was wearing the night of the party. Later that night, "Daddy" visits Anna and tells her that sparing her life was his greatest mistake, as it meant breaking his oath "to kill all the Wildlings." He hands Anna a syringe with a lethal dose of leuprorelin and urges her to take it, but she refuses. 

The next morning, Ellen checks on Anna, who manages to lock Ellen in the jail cell and escape. Anna convinces Ray to drive north towards the forest. Abandoning the car, they go into the forest, where they have sex as Ray feels hair growing on Anna's lower back. The next morning, Anna discovers claws have grown on her feet. They are suddenly ambushed by "Daddy" and a group of hunters, and Ray is shot in the arm during their escape. Knowing that Ray's life is in danger, Anna runs off, leading the hunting party away.

Three months later, Anna has almost fully transformed into a Wildling. Ellen follows the hunters on one of their expeditions where Anna kills several of them, including Deputy Roger Fowler. Ellen allows Anna to escape after seeing that she is pregnant. The hunters set the forest on fire, forcing Anna to dig underground. After Anna is tranquilized by "Daddy", he attempts to perform a Caesarean section on her, intending on claiming the unborn child for himself and naming it Anna if its a girl. Anna fights off the drugs and rips his throat out, killing him. Anna wakes up to the outdoorsman stitching her wounds.

The next morning, Ellen and Ray see Anna from afar as she runs back towards the mountains. Later, a fully transformed Anna has traveled north as she cradles her newborn child under the Northern Lights. In the distance, she hears the call of another Wildling, implying that other Wildlings have survived the purge.

