Brothers Zach and Gray Mitchell visit Jurassic World, a dinosaur theme park on Isla Nublar, for winter break, of which their maternal aunt Claire Dearing is the operations manager. Claire assigns her assistant Zara as the boys' guide, but they evade her and explore on their own.

Elsewhere on the island, Navy veteran and ethologist Owen Grady has been training a ''Velociraptor'' squad composed of Blue, Charlie, Delta, and Echo, and researching their intelligence. Based on the raptors' ability to follow commands, the head of InGen security Vic Hoskins believes that the animals can be weaponized, an idea Owen and his assistant Barry vehemently oppose.

Before its opening, Claire and park owner Simon Masrani inspect the park's newest attraction, the ''Indominus rex'', a transgenic dinosaur created by geneticist Dr. Henry Wu. Masrani tasks Owen with evaluating the enclosure's security. Owen warns Claire that the ''Indominus'' lacks social skills, making it dangerous and unpredictable. When the ''Indominus'' seemingly escapes her compound, Owen and two park workers enter the enclosure. The ''Indominus'', which can camouflage itself and mask its heat signature, suddenly appears. Owen survives, but the ''Indominus'' devours the other two men before escaping into the island's interior. Realizing that it is highly vicious and intelligent, Owen advises Masrani to have the specimen destroyed, but to protect his company's investment, Masrani dispatches a specialized unit to subdue it with non-lethal weaponry so that it can safely be returned to its paddock. After most of the unit is slaughtered, Claire orders the evacuation of the island's northern sector, while Masrani ponders Owen's warning and accosts Wu.

While exploring the park in a tour vehicle, Zach and Gray enter a restricted area. The ''Indominus'' arrives and destroys the vehicle, but the boys narrowly escape. They find the ruins of the original Jurassic Park visitor center, repair an old Jeep Wrangler, and drive back to the park resort.

As Claire and Owen search for the boys, they barely escape the ''Indominus'' as well. Masrani and two troopers hunt down the ''Indominus'' by helicopter, but it breaks into the park's aviary. The ''Pteranodons'' and ''Dimorphodons'', startled by the ''Indominus'', flee the aviary and fly into Masrani's helicopter, resulting it in crashing and killing its passengers, before converging onto the resort, and attacking everyone, including Zara who is then devoured by a ''Mosasaurus''. Zach and Gray find Owen and Claire at the resort as armed personnel shoot down the pterosaurs.

Assuming command, Hoskins orders the raptors to be used to track the ''Indominus'', whereupon Owen reluctantly complies and spearheads the assault with the raptors. Upon finding the ''Indominus'', the dinosaurs begin communicating among themselves. Owen realizes that the ''Indominus'' has ''Velociraptor'' DNA, and it usurps Owen's command of the raptors, becoming the pack's new alpha. Troops fire on the ''Indominus'', but it escapes. The raptors slaughter most of the soldiers, while Charlie is killed in the chaos. Hoskins evacuates Dr. Wu and the dinosaur embryos from the island to protect Dr. Wu's research. Owen, Claire, and the boys find Hoskins at the lab securing more embryos, but Delta breaks in and kills him. Owen restores his bond with the three surviving raptors before the ''Indominus'' reappears. They attack the hybrid, but Delta and Echo are killed while Blue is knocked unconscious. Claire releases the Jurassic Park’s veteran ''Tyrannosaurus rex'' from its paddock and lures it into a battle with the ''Indominus''. The ''Indominus'' eventually gains the advantage over the ''Tyrannosaurus'' until Blue recovers and joins the battle. The duo overwhelms the ''Indominus'' until it gets cornered at the lagoon's edge, where it is dragged underwater by the resident ''Mosasaurus''.

The survivors are evacuated, and the island is abandoned once again. Zach and Gray reunite with their parents, while Owen and Claire decide to stay together.

