Akane Tsunemori and her allies from Bureau's Criminal Investigation fight in an operation against foreign terrorists who have infiltrated Japan and recover images of their former colleague Shinya Kogami. The terrorists originate from the Southeast Asia Union (SEAUn), a superstate that has begun to import the Sibyl System technology from Japan, in order to arrest "latent criminals". Tsunemori is granted permission to travel to the SEAUn; she is received by a military procession under the supervision of Colonel Nicholas Wong. Wong tells Tsunemori their guns, called Dominators, are not used in the country and that due to a lack of resources, latent criminals are fitted with collars that will deliver a lethal dose of poison. Tsunemori accompanies Wong and his men on a military operation outside Shambala Float; during a battle, she finds Kogami. Wong's drones endanger Tsunemori in an attempt to kill Kogami, they are forced to flee together. They go to the base of the terrorists, who are fighting to free their nation from Han's military dictatorship and the Sibyl System. Meanwhile, Wong contacts mercenary leader Desmond Rutaganda and hires his team to find Tsunemori and Kogami.

Kogami suspects a conspiracy is unfolding, due to Han's alliance with Sibyl and that the terrorists in Japan were not sent by their movement. Rutaganda and his mercenaries attack the camp, killing many of the resistance fighters. Kogami helps Tsunemori escape before he is captured. At Shambala Float, Tsunemori realizes the Sibyl System in Shambala Float has been tampered with and programmed to ignore Wong and the rest of the city's military, allowing them to act with impunity despite being latent criminals with elevated Crime Coefficients. 

Wong and his men take Tsunemori to a helipad, where Rutaganda's group arrives with a wounded Kogami. Rutaganda plans to have them both executed and then use the helicopter to stage their deaths to look like a Japanese terrorist caused them as part of a false flag operation to increase his own military power. The drones, which  been reset by Tsunemori's ally, Shion Karanomori, to accurately detect their Crime Coefficients, turn on Wong's men. Just then, the rest of Division One arrives with Nobuchika Ginoza killing Wong. In the ensuing battle, all of Wong's men are killed, except Rutaganda. Kogami pursues Rutaganda, urging Tsunemori to go after Han to discover the truth about the conspiracy. 

Kogami fights Rutaganda but he is overwhelmed until Ginoza appears and together kill him. Han is found to be a criminally asymptomatic Sibyl android. Sibyl tells Tsunemori they engineered the chain of events, creating a need for the system in the SEAUn. Tsunemori still demands Han's resignation and a free and fair election. The Sibyl System grants her wish. The next day, Han claims Wong's failed coup has caused him to rethink his government and announce his resignation so an election can be held. The SEAUn in the hands of the uncorrupt military while Division One returns to Japan with Ginoza having let Kogami escape. 

In a post-credits scene, Kogami overhears a radio broadcast revealing Han is winning the election. The film concludes with a voice-over by Tsunemori, promising that someday the value of the Sibyl System will be examined.

