Will Stronghold lives with his superhero parents, Steve Stronghold / The Commander and Josie DeMarco-Stronghold / Jetstream, in Maxville. Will is anxious about attending his parents' alma mater, Sky High, a school located on a floating campus that can only be reached by a flying school bus, because he secretly has not developed any superpowers. 

On their first day, he, his best friend Layla Williams, and the other freshmen are harassed by seniors Speed, Lash, and Penny Lent. Additionally, Will is assigned to the "Hero Support" curriculum and becomes a sidekick due to his lack of powers, though Layla joins him in protest of the school's two-track education system.

Unaware of what happened to his son, Steve shows Will his hidden trophy room, the Secret Sanctum. In particular, he expresses fondness for the "Pacifier", a weapon he took from his presumed dead arch-nemesis Royal Pain 16 years earlier; however, they are being watched via a camera hidden in a separate trophy. 

Though he befriends his fellow sidekicks, Will comes into conflict with pyrokinetic student Warren Peace, whose supervillain father was imprisoned by Steve. In the ensuing fight, Will develops his father's super-strength, catching the attention of popular technopath Gwen Grayson. Upon being transferred to the Hero curriculum, Will spends more time with Gwen and her friends, ignoring Layla and the sidekicks. Layla later confides in Warren that she has a crush on Will. 

On the day before the school's Homecoming dance, Gwen tricks Will into throwing a party at his house and has Speed secretly steal the Pacifier. Layla tries investigating the party, but falls for Gwen's lies. Will later breaks up with Gwen and refuses to attend the dance despite his parents being invited as honored guests. While looking through his father's yearbook, Will discovers a student who resembles Gwen named Sue Tenny. Assuming Tenny became Royal Pain and Gwen is her daughter, Will heads to Sky High to stop her with help from bus driver Ron Wilson.

At the dance, Gwen reveals herself as Royal Pain. With Speed, Lash, and Penny's aid, she captures and de-ages the attendees into infants as revenge for Sky High making her a sidekick because of her powers being unknown when she attended as Tenny; she herself had been de-aged years prior. After reconciling with Layla, Will teams up with her, Warren, and the other sidekicks to rescue the captives and defeat Gwen's allies, during which Will develops Josie's flight power. Though Gwen sabotages the school's anti-gravity drive, the sidekicks successfully restart it, and Will returns the school to the sky.

With Sky High saved, Gwen and her allies are given detention while her captives are restored to their proper ages and Will and Layla enter a relationship.

