{{Long plot|date=June 2023}}
Max is a ten-year-old boy living in the suburbs of Austin. In his imagination, he has created Planet Drool, where his dreams come to life. It contains two main characters: Sharkboy, a boy who was raised by sharks after losing his marine biologist father at sea and later became a shark-hybrid himself, and Lavagirl, a teenage girl who can wield fire and lava but has trouble controlling her power, causing her to accidentally set fire to whatever she touches. Max's parents have little time for him in the real world due to their troubled marriage. At school, he is bullied by his classmate Linus. He does receive friendship from Marissa, the daughter of Max's teacher, Mr. Electricidad. Linus steals Max's dream journal and threatens to "make changes." The next day, twin tornadoes form outside the school. Sharkboy and Lavagirl emerge from the storm and ask Max to accompany them to Planet Drool, which he learns is turning bad thanks to Mr. Electric, a robot resembling Mr. Electricidad and the dreamworld's now-corrupt electrician, under the orders of an unknown mastermind. They travel to Planet Drool with the Shark Rocket and crash land. 

They confront Mr. Electric in his lair, but he drops them into the Dream Graveyard, where many of Max's dreams have been dumped. They find Tobor, a robot toy Max never finished building after being discouraged by his father. Tobor carries them to other parts of the planet using his eyes and mouth, as he can't move the rest of his body. The three of them bond during their journey, but face hardships, such as Sharkboy's anger that the oceans are frozen over and Lavagirl's desperation to find her true purpose. While being pursued by Mr. Electric and his evil plug-hounds, they plan to reach the Ice Princess and obtain the Crystal Heart, with which they could freeze time, granting them enough time to reach the center of Planet Drool and for Max to repair the dreamworld by re-dreaming it. Instead, they are captured by Mr. Electric and delivered to the mastermind, who is revealed to be Minus, a villain resembling Linus who has altered Max's journal, causing the corruption of the dreamworld. After being trapped in a cage, Sharkboy becomes enraged by singing bubbles and destroys the cell in a "shark frenzy." Max retrieves his dream journal while Minus is sleeping. Reading the book, Max informs Sharkboy that his father is still alive and searching for him, but when Lavagirl wishes to learn what it says about her true identity, she grabs the book, and it burns to ash. In a desperate rage, Lavagirl asks Max why he made her out of lava and runs off. Max wants to follow, but Sharkboy tells him to let her cool down.

The three eventually reach the Ice Princess, who resembles Marissa. She hands over the Crystal Heart, but they cannot stop the corruption since the Ice Princess is the only one who can use the Crystal Heart's power, and she cannot leave her home. Afterwards, Mr. Electric knocks Sharkboy unconscious by tricking him into jumping into a lake filled with electric eels, which are his weakness. Lavagirl sacrifices herself by jumping into the water to retrieve him. Max realizes he has been selfish in wanting to return to Earth. Tobor appears and convinces Max to dream a better, unselfish dream. Just then, Sharkboy regains consciousness and races Lavagirl to a volcano to revive her. Max realizes that Lavagirl's purpose is to be a light against the darkness engulfing Planet Drool. Max becomes the Daydreamer and gains reality-warping powers to defeat Minus. He then offers that the two join to make a better dream world, and Minus agrees. Lavagirl thanks Max and Sharkboy for saving her.

Minus offers to let Mr. Electric return to running Planet Drool, but Mr. Electric reveals that he never enjoyed doing so in the first place. He tells Max that he made a terrible mistake of dreaming him up and flies to Earth to kill Max while he is dreaming. Max awakens back in his classroom during the tornado, which Mr. Electric uses to arrive at Earth in front of the class and an astonished Mr. Electricidad. Max's parents are caught in the tornado, but are saved by Sharkboy and Lavagirl, who tailed Mr. Electric. Max gives the Crystal Heart to Marissa, so she can use the Ice Princess's cryokinetic power to freeze and destroy Mr. Electric. Mr. Electricidad, Linus, and Max make peace with one another, and Max reunites with his now-reconciled parents.

Later, Max informs his class that Planet Drool is a proper dreamworld again. Sharkboy is now King of the Ocean and is searching for his father, while Lavagirl is now Queen of Earth's Volcanoes. As Max finally repairs Tobor, he reminds the class (and the audience) to "dream a better dream and work to make it real."

