A man named Joe Walker checks into the Roosevelt Hotel, enters his hotel room on the 21st floor, and climbs on the ledge, apparently ready to commit suicide. The crowd below calls the police. Dante Marcus controls the crowd, while Jack Dougherty talks with Walker. Walker will only speak to negotiator Lydia Mercer, who is on a leave of absence after failing to save a suicidal policeman. Mercer arrives at the hotel room and acquires Walker's fingerprints from a shared cigarette. Dougherty has them analyzed and discovers that "Walker" is actually Nick Cassidy, an ex-policeman who was given a 25-year sentence for stealing a diamond from businessman David Englander; Nick escaped one month earlier during his father's funeral. Nick maintains his innocence and claims that Englander has framed him, as Englander lost his fortune in a bad business deal and was too proud to sell the diamond.

Nick distracts the police while his brother, Joey, and Joey's girlfriend, Angie, break into Englander's vault across the street to recover the diamond and prove his innocence. Cassidy must use double entendres to provide instructions to Joey and Angie through an earpiece while speaking to Mercer. Dougherty informs Marcus of Nick's identity, and Marcus orders the jewelry store's security to check the vault. Joey and Angie evade them but do not find the diamond. They deliberately set off an alarm, trick Englander into retrieving the diamond, and ambush him in his office, where they steal the diamond at gunpoint. Nick's ex-partner, Mike Ackerman, arrives at the hotel with evidence that Nick is planning something and demands to be allowed into the hotel room. Mercer distrusts him, and Dougherty backs her up. Ackerman claims he has found bomb schematics in a storage unit Nick rented and is convinced that he will detonate an explosive somewhere. While the crowd is evacuated by the bomb squad, Mercer, believing in Nick's innocence, calls internal affairs and discovers that three of the cops employed by Englander were suspected of being corrupt: Ackerman, Marcus, and a deceased officer called Joe Walker.

Joey and Angie enter the hotel and hand the bag containing the diamond to the hotel concierge. The concierge pockets the diamond while placing the bag onto the rack. Englander calls Marcus, one of the corrupt cops who helped him frame Nick, and has him capture Joey and Angie as they reach the street. Nick attempts to escape through the hotel, pursued by a tactical team. The concierge aids him by handing him a disguise containing the diamond. Marcus chases Nick to the roof, where he has Mercer arrested for obstruction to clear the roof. Englander brings Joey and Angie, threatening to kill Joey unless Nick gives him the diamond. Nick turns it over, and Englander leaves. Mercer escapes custody in an elevator and rushes back to the roof. Marcus demands Nick jump off the roof. Ackerman arrives, shoots Marcus, and is shot in return. Ackerman apologizes to Nick and says he did not know Englander would frame him. Marcus' bulletproof vest saves him. As he prepares to kill Nick, Mercer arrives and shoots him. Englander mocks Nick as he leaves the area. Nick jumps from the roof onto an airbag set up earlier by the police and catches up to Englander. With the assistance of a crowd member, Nick evades capture and pulls the diamond from Englander's jacket, publicly proving his innocence.

Nick is cleared of all charges and released from custody. He meets Joey, Angie, and Mercer at a bar owned by Nick's father, Frank Cassidy, who had faked his death and pretended to be the hotel concierge. Mercer asks Nick to "explain everything" to her as Joey proposes to Angie with a diamond ring, presumably stolen from Englander's vault. She accepts, and they all celebrate together.

