Sisters Lisa and Kate are on vacation in Mexico after Lisa's boyfriend recently broke up with her. They decide to go watch sharks from a diving cage with two local men. At the docks, Lisa is wary of the boat and its owner, Captain Taylor. Kate has had one lesson in diving, but Lisa has never dived. They lie to Taylor and tell him that they are both experienced divers. Unbeknownst to everyone, the winch supporting the cage is unsecured.

Taylor sends Lisa and Kate down, with masks that allow them to talk to him on the surface and to each other. They are soon surrounded by great white sharks, but the winch boom breaks free, and the cage sinks to the ocean floor 47 metres below the surface and out of communication range with the boat. Kate swims up seven meters to resume communication with Taylor, who tells her that Javier will be coming down with a spare winch cable to attach to the cage. He advises them to stay in the cage because the sharks are close by. Both women are running out of air but soon see a flashlight in the distance. With Kate low on air from the previous swim, Lisa swims out to get Javier's attention. A shark tries to attack her, but she avoids it.

Lisa becomes disoriented about her position. Javier attempts to usher her back towards safety but he is killed by a great white shark. Lisa takes his spear gun and the winch cable and swims back to the cage. The spare cable is attached but it snaps, and the cage sinks back down, landing on Lisa's leg and pinning her. Kate tells Taylor they are low on air and Lisa is trapped. He sends air tanks down and tells them the coast guard is an hour out. He also warns that the second tank may cause nitrogen narcosis, which can lead to hallucinations. Kate finds three flares to signal the coast guard. As she returns to the cage, she is attacked and (presumably) devoured by a great white shark. Lisa uses the spear from the spear gun to pull a tank toward her and dons it, getting more air.

Kate is injured and her blood is attracting more sharks. Lisa uses her BCD to lift up the cage, freeing her leg, and she swims to Kate. Due to the nature of Kate's wounds, the sisters decide to swim to the surface, using one of the flares to scare off the sharks. At the 20-meter mark, Taylor reminds them they must wait five minutes to decompress and avoid the bends. Kate accidentally drops the second flare and lights the third, discovering that they are surrounded by sharks.

As the third flare goes out, Taylor yells for them to drop their gear and make a break for the surface, and they swim as fast as they can. One of the sharks' bites one of Lisa's legs but she escapes. Both women make it to the boat, but Lisa is attacked again. She sticks her fingers in the shark's eye, and it releases her. The men pull the sisters onto the boat, saving them, and start patching up their wounds when they see that the shark has bitten off half of Lisa's leg.

It is revealed that Lisa has been hallucinating all this time due to nitrogen narcosis and that she is still at the bottom of the ocean with her leg pinned under the cage, with Kate gone. As Coast Guard divers arrive to rescue her and carry her to the surface, Lisa begins coming out of her hallucination, calling out to Kate. When Lisa looks around for Kate, she realizes that her sister is not present and begins crying, remembering that Kate was killed by the great white shark.

