In 1996, Brantford, New Hampshire, teenager Alex Vreeke receives ''Jumanji'', which was previously disposed of by Alan Parrish and Sarah Whittle in 1969,{{efn|As depicted in the 1995 film ''Jumanji''.}} from his father, who found it on the coast. Later that night, Alex finds it transformed into a video game cartridge. Opting to play, he is sucked inside the game, disappearing from the real world as time continues to pass.

Twenty-one years later, four Brantford High School students – awkward Spencer Gilpin, athletic Anthony "Fridge" Johnson, ditzy Bethany Walker, and cynical Martha Kaply – are given detention. Fridge discovers Alex's discarded video game; upon starting it, the group is sucked into ''Jumanji'', landing in a jungle as their chosen avatars – Spencer as muscular archaeologist Dr. Xander "Smolder" Bravestone, Fridge as zoologist Franklin "Mouse" Finbar, Bethany as male cartographer and paleontologist Professor Sheldon "Shelly" Oberon, and Martha as sultry martial arts expert Ruby Roundhouse. Three marks on their arms denote their lives in the game, making them afraid that if they lose all three, they will actually die.

The group's goal is to end a curse on ''Jumanji'', brought about by corrupt archaeologist Professor Van Pelt{{efn|name=VanPelt|The character is known as Russell Van Pelt in the US version of the film, and John Hardin Van Pelt in the UK version of the film.}} after he stole a magical jewel called the "Jaguar's Eye" and gained control of the jungle's animals. They must return the jewel to the shrine and call out "Jumanji!" to lift the curse and leave the game.

Coping with their avatars, their character "weaknesses", Van Pelt's men, and their own group dynamics as they begin their journey, they encounter Alex playing the fifth avatar – pilot Jefferson "Seaplane" McDonough – who takes them to a treehouse that Alan Parrish built during his tenure in Jumanji. Alex thinks he has only been stuck in the game for a couple months; everyone, including Alex, is shocked to learn that he's been there for 20 years.

The group coordinate with each other's strengths and work together to overcome the game's obstacles. They manage to return the jewel to the statue, break the curse, and return to the real world.

Back in the present, the group finds the Vreeke home restored and lively from its previous haunted state. They meet Alex, now an adult, who explains that he miraculously returned to his own time in 1996, allowing him to live his life. He remained in Brantford and now leads a married life; his daughter is named after Bethany to honor her after she'd saved him by sacrificing one of her own lives in the game.

The four students form an unlikely friendship after their experiences in the game, having bonded and become better people. Together, they destroy the game to prevent it from endangering anyone else.

