Mordred the warlock and his armies lay siege to Camelot. Uther Pendragon, the king of the Britons, infiltrates Mordred's lair during the attack and beheads him with the help of a unique sword forged by Merlin, saving Camelot. Uther's brother Vortigern--who covets the throne--orchestrates a coup and sacrifices his wife, Elsa, to Syrens to become a Demon Knight. He kills Uther's wife, Igraine and defeats Uther; Uther's son Arthur escapes by boat and ends up in Londinium. Taken in by prostitutes, he becomes a tough and savvy crime boss on the street. However, he is plagued by nightmares of the night that his parents died without seeing who attacked them.

Vortigern rules Britain cruelly and dedicates resources to building a tower near the castle. When the water surrounding the castle recedes, revealing a sword in a stone, he has all the men in the city taken to it in an attempt to remove it. Arthur is able to evade capture with the help of the prostitutes, but is eventually caught. He is taken to the stone where he removes the sword, but is overwhelmed by its power and passes out. In captivity, Vortigern explains Arthur's lineage and that the sword's significance to him before planning his execution.

Meanwhile, a mage identifying herself as an acolyte of Merlin presents herself to Uther's former general, Sir Bedivere. At Arthur's planned execution, the mage creates a diversion while Bedivere's men rescue Arthur. Taken to Bedivere's hideout, Arthur (initially) refuses to help them, not believing that he is king. The mage persuades Bedivere to take Arthur to a realm called the "Darklands", where he sees a vision of how the Demon Knight, revealed to be Vortigern, killed his mother. He also witnesses his father sacrifice himself to save Arthur and entomb the sword in stone made of his own body, making him realize that he is indeed the rightful king. Arthur learns Vortigern was responsible for persuading Mordred to attack Camelot, having grown jealous of Uther's popularity and wanting the throne for himself. He builds the tower to increase his own magical powers.

Arthur and the rebels chip away at Vortigern's army and eventually plan an assassination attempt.  Vortigern eludes the assassination, and a battle ensues. Arthur escapes with his friend's son Blue but several of his men are killed and one is captured.  Frustrated with the situation, Arthur attempts to throw the sword into a lake, but the Lady of the Lake returns it and shows him a vision of England's future under Vortigern's rule. Coming to terms with his responsibility, Arthur reunites with Bedivere and they return to their hideout. However, because their captured man revealed its location under torture, the mage and Blue had been captured, and all other rebels killed. An emissary from Vortigern instructs Arthur to surrender that day at the castle.

Bedivere brings the sword to Vortigern at the castle in exchange for the mage, indicating that Arthur is powerless without the sword. Arthur promises to surrender himself the next day in exchange for Blue. Before riding to the castle, the mage injects him with special snake venom to protect him from a surprise attack she has in store. When Arthur confronts Vortigern, a giant snake attacks the castle under the control of the mage, saving Arthur.  However, Vortigern is covered in the blood of a snake that tries to attack him, providing him protection from the giant snake. As Bedivere's rebels begin their attack, Arthur reclaims his sword and follows Vortigern into the tower.  Needing help from the moat hags once more, Vortigern sacrifices his daughter to once again become the Demon Knight and is confronted by Arthur. After a brutal fight, Arthur has a vision of his father passing the sword of Excalibur on to him, enabling him to defeat Vortigern. As he dies, Arthur consoles him and leaves his body behind. In the aftermath, the rebels are victorious and celebrate.

Arthur, after reclaiming his rightful throne, knights his friends and begins construction on his Round Table.

