Kan Fung had escaped from the clutches of the organization responsible for his superhuman abilities. He plans to find any geneticist who will be able to cure him. Meanwhile, he has decided to use his powers for the greater of good, calling himself Black Mask. Lang, another high-ranking member of the organization, has been hired to find Black Mask and kill him.

Wrestling promoter King is gearing up for a major event and has his top wrestlers Claw, Iguana, Chameleon, Snake, and Wolf ready for battle. However, when the wrestler Hellraiser (real name Ross) is attacked by Iguana, who undergoes a radical transformation into an iguana-human hybrid, Black Mask comes to the rescue. Ross is seriously injured and Black Mask chases Iguana to a nearby Tower. When Iguana falls off, Black Mask catches his hand in hopes that he can help him. Iguana lets himself free of Black Mask's grip and falls to his death. A grief-stricken Chameleon, who was Iguana's girlfriend, witnesses Iguana's remains revert to his human form. It is soon revealed that the wrestlers had been experimented under Dr. Moloch, who gave the wrestlers animal DNA to enhance their skills. However, they soon discover the animal DNA have given them the ability to undergo transformations as animal-hybrids. They now intend to use their newfound abilities to track down Black Mask and kill him to avenge Iguana. Chameleon, whose body can blend in with her surroundings, goes rogue from the group, takes off her clothes so that she can move about fully invisible, and vengefully hunts Black Mask.

Meanwhile, Black Mask has found the geneticist who may be able to cure him, Dr. Marco Leung. Black Mask tries to communicate with Dr. Leung through anonymous phone calls. In the meantime, Black Mask befriends Raymond, Ross's young son who idolizes both his father as well as Black Mask. When Black Mask scuffles with the invisible Chameleon during an investigation of the wrestlers, he is given a dose of animal DNA by Moloch. This turns him into a tiger-hybrid, which gives him the strength to fight-off Chameleon. Locating Dr. Leung, Black Mask warns her of the injected DNA and asks for her help. Dr. Leung learns of a chemical component that could be the key to cure the tiger DNA for Black Mask. Sneaking out, Black Mask has another scuffle with the wrestlers but successfully finds the chemical needed for the animal cure. Black Mask is fully cured of his own injected DNA, but he has a reaction to the cure that at first causes him to react violently and then to stagger out into the city in a stupor.

When he is cornered by a invisible Chameleon, whose body occasionally pulses with light, Black Mask finally reveals how Iguana actually killed himself and that he had intended to help him. Black Mask tells Chameleon that she is unable to control herself and that her body will eventually fade away, leaving her invisible forever. Feeling remorse and worried about disappearing, Chameleon stops her assault, turns semi-visible, and withdraws. 

During a climactic showdown the following day, Black Mask learns that his old nemesis Lang has incapacitated Moloch and has planted a bomb that has the capability of changing DNA throughout the city. Snake and Wolf fight Black Mask; Lang's right-hand man General Troy fights Black Mask and then pursues Dr. Leung; Thorn fights Black Mask and is then ambushed by Chameleon, now completely invisible, who snatches the bomb from Thorn and passes it on to Black Mask.  Snake, Wolf, Troy, Thorn, and Chameleon are all destroyed.  Chameleon's head and shoulders reappear, darkly-tanned.

Finally, Lang takes on Black Mask. At first Lang has the upper hand, but Black Mask successfully defeats Lang and stops the bomb from exploding. The next day, Dr. Leung receives a call from Kan Fung. She leaves the lab and gets on the back of Kan's motorcycle, which implies she has finally cured him of his original superhuman abilities.

