A Special Forces Team is sent to an apartment complex to rescue a reporter named Ángela and destroy the building. Following an attack by infected firefighters and residents, the team's survivors, Lucas and Guzman, complete the assignment. Ángela awakens on a ship, chained to a bed and remembering nothing. Dr. Ginard takes a sample of Ángela's blood for testing. Lucas and Guzman are also on board the vessel, which has been effectively quarantined by its isolation. After a failed escape attempt, Ángela is informed by Dr. Ricarte that she is not infected. Meanwhile, Guzman makes acquaintances with the ship's captain Ortega and the technician Nic, who reconstructs the events within the apartment complex with the aid of Ángela's camera. Nic sends the film to the doctors in their laboratory, where they begin experimentation with the pathogen.

The doctors discover that their test subject, an infected monkey, has been released during a power outage the previous night. The monkey infects the ship's cook, who in turn contaminates the food. Ingestion infects the majority of the crew and guards. After an unsuccessful attempt by the doctors to cure the cook with an antidote, Ángela, Guzman, Lucas, and an elderly woman who survived an outbreak at a wedding make for the bridge. On the way, the elderly woman is separated from the group, and Lucas stays behind to rescue her, only to find her infected, which forces him to shoot her down. Ricarte recognizes that the attempt to find an antidote has failed because it requires an unmutated strain of the pathogen. Shortly before he can initiate a self-destruct sequence, his assistant informs him of the reconstructed film, which shows Ángela being orally infected with a worm-like parasite by the pathogen's original carrier. Ricarte attempts to extract the parasite by forcing surgery on Ángela, who is saved when an attack by the now-infected Ginard allows her escape. Ricarte searches for Ángela, who ambushes him and bites him. Despite a scan of his blood reading negative, Ricarte is convinced that Ángela is tricking him. It is revealed that during Ángela's rescue, the parasite transferred to Guzman, who traps Ángela within the ship's bowels as Ricarte launches the ship's self-destruct sequence.

Lucas and Nic try and fail to start the ship's auxiliary engine, and Lucas is killed by the infected. Nic finds Ricarte attempting to flee in a lifeboat. Nic knocks Ricarte out, takes the lifeboat for himself, and searches for Ángela. Nic finds her on the run from infected monkeys, which they manage to kill with an outboard motor. They are then attacked by Guzman, who attempts to transfer the parasite back into Ángela. Shortly before he succeeds, Nic and Ángela kill Guzman with a harpoon gun. Ángela and Nic leave the boat as all the infected chase after them. Ángela jumps into the ocean and Nic follows, escaping as the ship explodes. Underwater, the parasite slowly twisting is swallowed by a fish. During the credits, Ángela and Nic are shown in a cab, having made it home.

