Sarah Walker is an aspiring actress who is stuck waitressing at a fast-food restaurant. Her friends are generally unsupportive and selfish; Erin is constantly trying to steal Sarah's roles, while her roommate Tracy and aspiring director Danny are apathetic to Sarah's situation. Sarah's prospects at stardom look grim until she takes an audition for a film called ''The Silver Scream'', held by the powerful production company Astraeus Pictures. Her audition is met with a lackluster response by the casting director and her assistant. Upset at being dismissed, Sarah goes to a nearby bathroom to scream and rip her hair out, a move that regains the interest of the casting director. She returns to the audition and reluctantly acquiesces to the casting director's demand that she rips her hair out again. Sarah is dismissed again, much to her confusion.

Sarah quits her job to fully pursue this role, and gets a callback for a second audition shortly after. She is caught off guard when she is told to disrobe. Sarah again agrees to these demands, and after being told to open herself up to the potential to "transform", she experiences extreme euphoria and undergoes a trance state, during which she notices that the casting director is wearing a pentagram-like necklace. While in this state, she begins to show mild erratic behaviors. However, when she is commanded to have sex with the producer at the third audition, Sarah balks and runs home. Danny, who apparently shows a romantic interest in Sarah, asks her to be the lead role in his own film project, to which she accepts.

At a pool party celebrating Danny's movie, Sarah is surprised when she sees him kissing Erin. Sarah angrily returns to the producer's house, where she promptly performs fellatio on him. During the following days, she shows increasingly erratic behavior even while her body begins to deteriorate. After a heated argument with Tracy, Sarah retreats to her room and sees the casting director, experiencing a vision of herself as a glamorous starlet. When she goes to the bathroom to vomit, she finds that her hair and nails have almost completely fallen out. Sarah, now wracked with pain, climbs into the bathtub and vomits masses of bloodied maggots.

Sarah answers a call from the producer, who tells her that she can either die or embrace the transformation. Sarah chooses the latter and goes to Erin's house to confront her. They argue over exchanging sex for film parts until Erin turns on the kitchen lights and sees Sarah's disfigured face. Erin tries to persuade Sarah to go to the hospital, but she slices Erin's cheek with a knife. Sarah accepts what she has done and proceeds to repeatedly stab Erin before killing two others in the house. She realizes that Erin is attempting to escape, and suffocates her with a plastic bag. She then goes outside to Danny's van and kills him as well.

Afterward, the people behind Astraeus Pictures reveal that they are a secret cult worshipping a demon of the same name. They conduct a ritual whereby Sarah, surrounded by illuminated acolytes, is reborn from a bloodied membrane as they mark out a surrounding pentagram-shaped emblem with rods of phosphorescent light. Sarah emerges with a flawless, healthy and totally hairless body; a gift-wrapped box has been left for her. She returns to her apartment and kills Tracy before putting on the presents that Astraeus left her: a black gown, a long brunette wig, and a silver pentagram necklace. Sarah admires herself in the mirror as her eyes glow green.

