Amelia Vanek is a troubled and exhausted widow living in Adelaide, who has brought up her six-year-old son Samuel alone. Her late husband, Oskar, was killed in a car accident when he drove Amelia to the hospital during labour. Sam begins displaying erratic behaviour: He becomes an insomniac and is preoccupied with an imaginary monster, which he has built weapons to fight. Amelia is forced to pick him up from school when he takes one of the weapons there. One night, he asks his mother to read a pop-up storybook called ''Mister Babadook''. It describes the titular monster, the Babadook, a tall pale-faced humanoid in a top hat with taloned fingers which torments its victims after they become aware of its existence. Amelia is disturbed by the book and its mysterious appearance, while Sam becomes convinced that the Babadook is real. Sam's persistence about the Babadook leads Amelia to have sleepless nights as she tries to comfort him.

Soon after, strange events occur: Doors mysteriously open and close, there are strange sounds, and Amelia finds glass shards in her food. She attributes the events to Sam's behaviour, but he blames the Babadook. Amelia rips up the book and disposes of it. At her birthday party, Sam's cousin Ruby bullies Sam for not having a father, and he pushes her out of her treehouse, breaking her nose. Amelia's sister Claire admits she cannot bear Sam, to which Amelia takes great offence. On the drive home, Sam has another vision of the Babadook and suffers a seizure. Amelia gets some sedatives from a pediatrician who treats him.

The next morning, Amelia finds the ''Mister Babadook'' book reassembled on the front door step. New words in it taunt her, saying the Babadook will become stronger if she continues to deny its existence, and it now contains pop-ups of her killing their dog Bugsy, Sam, and then herself. Terrified, she burns the book and runs to the police station after a disturbing phone call. However, she has no proof of the stalking, and when she then sees the Babadook's suit hung up behind the front desk, she leaves.

That night, as she tries to fall asleep, she sees the Babadook open her bedroom door, crawl up the ceiling and attack her. She then turns on all the lights in the house and falls asleep with Sam downstairs. After the attack, Amelia becomes more isolated and impatient, shouts at Samuel for 'disobeying' her constantly, and has more visions of the Babadook. She exhibits erratic and violent behaviour, including cutting the phone line with a knife, then waving the same knife aggressively at Sam. She has disturbing hallucinations in which she sees herself murdering Sam.

Amelia sees an apparition of Oskar, who offers to return to her if she "brings the boy" to him. Realizing he is a creation of the Babadook, she flees and the Babadook stalks her through the house until it finally possesses her. Under its influence she breaks Bugsy's neck and attempts to kill Sam. Eventually luring her into the basement, Sam knocks her out. Tied up, Amelia awakens with Sam, terrified, nearby. When she tries to strangle him, he lovingly caresses her face, causing her to regurgitate an inky black substance, which seemingly expels the Babadook. However, Sam reminds Amelia that "you can't get rid of the Babadook," and an unseen force drags him backwards into Amelia's bedroom. She saves Sam, but is forced to see a vision of her husband's death. Furious, she confronts the Babadook, making it retreat into the basement, and she locks the door behind it.

Eventually, Amelia and Sam manage to recover. She is attentive and caring toward him, encouraging him with building his weapons and being impressed at his magic tricks. In the garden, they gather worms in a bowl. Amelia takes it to the basement and places it on the floor. The Babadook tries to attack her, but she soothes it and it retreats to the corner, taking the bowl of worms with it. She returns to the yard to celebrate Sam's birthday.

