Best friends Wallace Bryton and Teddy Craft host a podcast called ''The Not-See Party'' in which they interview eccentric people. Wallace flies to Canada to interview the ''Kill Bill'' Kid, who has become an internet sensation due to a viral video of him accidentally severing his leg with a katana, which had been publicised by Wallace's and Teddy's coverage of it. Wallace's girlfriend, Ally, stays behind. Upon arriving in Manitoba, he learns that the ''Kill Bill'' Kid has committed suicide. Determined to not waste his trip, Wallace tries to find another person to interview. He finds a flyer from someone offering a room in his home for free and the guarantee of hearing interesting stories. Intrigued, he arrives at the mansion of Howard Howe, a retired seaman in a wheelchair.

Howard tells the story of how a walrus, whom he named "Mr. Tusk", rescued him after a shipwreck. Wallace passes out from the secobarbital laced in the tea Howard made for him. The next morning, Wallace wakes up to find himself strapped into a wheelchair and his left leg amputated. Howard tells Wallace that a brown recluse spider bit his leg and the amputation was necessary in order to save his life. Howard then reveals that he can still walk and lays out his plans to fit Wallace into a perfectly constructed walrus costume in an attempt to re-create Mr. Tusk. Ally and Teddy, who are having an affair, each ignore their phones when Wallace calls them for help. After leaving voicemails for them, Wallace is knocked unconscious by Howard.

Now aware that Wallace is in danger, Ally and Teddy fly to Canada. Back at the mansion, Howard continues to mutilate and alter Wallace while relaying his backstory: a Duplessis orphan following his parents' murder, he was physically and sexually abused for five years by the clergy who fostered him, leaving him with severe misanthropy. He attaches Wallace to a walrus costume made of human skin, complete with tusks made from Wallace’s severed tibia bones, in such a manner that Wallace's body will heal into it, rendering it a permanent part of his body. A local detective puts Ally and Teddy in touch with Guy LaPointe, a former Sûreté du Québec inspector who has been hunting Howard for years. LaPointe explains that Howard, nicknamed "the First Wife", has been kidnapping and murdering people for years; he believes Wallace may still be alive, but not as they remember him.

Howard conditions Wallace to think and behave like a walrus. Howard reveals that shortly before being rescued, he had killed and eaten Mr. Tusk to survive. Overcome with guilt, he has spent the last 15 years turning his victims into his beloved savior in an attempt to relive their last day and give Mr. Tusk another chance at survival. With Howard dressed in his homemade pelt, the two engage in a fight that ends when Wallace impales Howard on his tusks. Howard dies satisfied to have fulfilled his life's mission at last. LaPointe, Ally, and Teddy enter the enclave as Wallace bellows victoriously. LaPointe aims a gun at him, much to Ally’s horror.

One year later, Wallace, still living as a walrus, lives in a wildlife sanctuary. Ally and Teddy visit him and feed him a mackerel. In a flashback, Ally tells Wallace that her grandfather once told her that crying is what separates humans from animals. Ally tearfully tells Wallace she still loves him before leaving. Wallace cries as he bellows, implying that he has retained some of his humanity.

