On Planet Baab, reckless astronaut and glory hog Scorch Supernova works at the organization BASA with his nerdy older brother Gary, who assists him on missions from BASA Headquarters. One day, Gary receives a message from the head of BASA, Lena, that Scorch will be sent to the "Dark Planet" (the Baabians' name for Earth) due to an SOS call. Gary opposes the idea, knowing that any alien who goes to Earth never comes back, but Scorch accepts without his approval. This leads to an argument between the brothers, causing Gary to quit his job out of frustration. Gary goes home to his wife Kira and adventure-hungry son Kip, only to find out that Scorch has already gone to the Dark Planet, via live TV.

Scorch arrives on Earth and finds a 7-Eleven convenience store, where he is ambushed by the US Army, led by General William T. Shanker, and is taken to Area 51. Witnessing this, Kip wants to go rescue Scorch, but Gary discourages him, upsetting Kip. That night, Gary goes to Kip's room to apologize only to find that Kip has escaped. He rushes to BASA with Kira and arrives in time to cancel a launch sequence at the last second and save Kip. Gary, having a change of heart, re-activates the sequence so he can rescue Scorch himself. Gary then arrives at the same 7-Eleven that Scorch arrived at earlier and is shortly captured by Shanker's men, taking him to Area 51 as well.

Gary is taken to Shanker's office where he is quickly removed after he receives an incoming call from Lena, who is revealed to be Shanker's girlfriend, as she has sent him the most powerful energy source in the galaxy, known as "blubonium", via Scorch’s robotic suit, not knowing Shanker only uses her to get the source. Gary is placed in a cell hall where he meets other aliens that were captured: a mouse-like alien named Doc, a cyclops-like alien named Io, and a slug-like alien named Thurman, who tell Gary that various human technology has been invented by them for Shanker to rip off and sell in exchange for their undetermined release from Area 51. Gary reunites with Scorch, but is again annoyed by his arrogance. Meanwhile, Lena captures Kira, who stayed at BASA and tried contacting Gary on his rescue mission, while revealing her plan to give Shanker a lifetime supply of blubonium.

In the cafeteria, Gary and Scorch argue and cause a food fight, which is eventually broken up by an arriving Shanker. The aliens are directed to the base's "peace shield", with Shanker revealing the blubonium, and Gary unintentionally provoking Scorch into stealing and breaking it. Shanker places Scorch into a freezing chamber and orders Gary to fix the blubonium for his brother's release, revealing that he plans to destroy all alien planets with life on them, stemming from an incident which a trio of grey aliens' spaceship (accidentally) killed his father back in 1947. Gary fixes the ray with help from his new friends, but Shanker goes back on his deal and freezes him as well. The other aliens discover Shanker's true intentions when he attempts to destroy Baab with the laser, but it is revealed that Gary rigged the machine to malfunction, destroying itself, and causing Gary, Scorch, and the other imprisoned Aliens to be released from their icy prisons. The brothers and their new friends escape Area 51 and head for Baab after locating Scorch's spaceship with help from Hawk and Hammer, two guys Gary met in 7-Eleven.

Meanwhile, back on Baab, Kip frees Kira, who subdues Lena after the latter takes off with a blubonium shipment. US Air Force jets chase the Scorch's ship, but Kip guides him through and manages to evade and destroy the jets. However, Shanker, wearing Scorch's robotic suit, uses a tractor beam to stop the ship in midair. Gary, followed by Scorch, jump out and manage to get the suit off Shanker which causes them all to plummet. While freefalling, Gary and Scorch reconcile before they and Shanker are rescued by the grey aliens, who previously helped Shanker due to their guilt of causing his father’s death but have now turned against him after discovering his true agenda. After Gary knocks out Shanker, the grey aliens take him away. The brothers return to Baab and reunite with Gary's family. Scorch is greeted as a hero, but gives Gary the credit. To celebrate his return, Scorch marries his girlfriend, anchorwoman Gabby Babblebrook, with Gary as his best man.

