In the 2040s, a Martian research base, Tantalus Base outpost, is established. The eight-person crew, which has been stationed there for six months, is only nineteen hours from the completion of their research mission. The spacecraft ''Aurora'' is inbound from Earth and will collect the team by lander. 

Mars scientist Marko Petrović has found samples that point to life on the planet. Without revealing his discovery, he devises a ruse for a last EVA on the surface. Crewmate Richard Harrington drives Petrović in a solar-powered rover to the spot where he found the sample. After he obtains soil with the biological agent present, Petrović falls into a sinkhole that suddenly opens.

Captain Charles Brunel and crewmate Lauren Dalby plan to explore the pit to retrieve Petrović's body. Dalby remains at the pit but disappears before the team can return with equipment. Brunel authorizes Vincent Campbell to explore the pit. He finds that a bacterial organism is present in the fissure. Dalby and Petrović reappear at the main outpost, but exposure to the organism has altered them into fast, aggressive, intelligent, zombie-like creatures with blackened skin and no trace of their original personalities. Harrington dies from a power drill attack by one of the zombies and later revives as one himself. The remaining crew hold off the zombies while Brunel and Campbell return. Brunel is also fatally injured and reanimates, which provides the crew with new insight into the symptoms: thirst, memory loss and aggression. It’s also discovered that antibiotics delay the infection.

After several fights and escapes from the zombies through the habitat modules, mission psychologist  Robert Irwin saves himself by trapping scientist Kim Aldrich in the hydroponics lab with one of the zombies. Rebecca Lane is also stabbed in the leg during the frantic escape to a rover. With their rover's power low, the survivors – Campbell, Irwin and Lane – decide they must get to the other rover, which is still at the site of the fissure. Under the pretence of a scouting operation, Irwin steals the second rover and fails to persuade Campbell to abandon Lane, whom he states is infected. Irwin meanwhile conceals evidence of his own possible infection.

While Campbell and Lane wait for the sun to rise and the solar-powered batteries to recharge, they discuss the nature of the zombies. Lane questions whether any human consciousness remains trapped in them. Campbell attempts to comfort her and falls asleep. When he awakens alone, Campbell realizes that Lane has fled into the desert, so he chases her. Lane, who knows she is likely to transform, fails to deter Campbell from following her. In desperation, she commits suicide by removing her helmet. After she dies, Lane reanimates and begs Campbell to destroy her. Campbell reluctantly complies.

Campbell and Irwin separately converge on the ''Aurora'' lander, where the reanimated Aldrich kills the lander's crew. Petrovic and the other zombies appear desiccated and inert. An infected Irwin initiates a launch, which takes him and Campbell into orbit. Campbell kills Irwin and ejects the body and virulent blood droplets into the vacuum of space. In a message to mission control, Campbell says he does not have enough fuel for a rendezvous but that supplies aboard can last for months if they want to launch a rescue. He tells them that this might not be advisable as he could be infected, having gotten a drop of Irwin's infected blood on his face; if so he has just enough fuel for re-entry and a fast death. Campbell concludes that it will take 15 minutes for the transmission to be received and will await their reply. He subsequently ends the communication, still floating alone in space.

