Since his last defeat, Freddy Krueger has been in Hell and unable to invade children's dreams as the adults of Springwood have gone to extremes to make sure their children have forgotten him; all mention of Freddy has been removed from public records and any children who dream of him are forcibly institutionalized at Western Hills Psychiatric Hospital and given the dream suppressant drug Hypnocil. Using his remaining power, Freddy resurrects Jason Voorhees. Appearing as Jason's mother Pamela Voorhees, he manipulates Jason into thinking his mother wants him to go elm street and resurrects him to kill teens there in order to create fear in the townsfolk that Freddy   has returned, which would allow him to regain his power.

Meanwhile, Lori Campbell, who lives with her widowed father Dr. Campbell, has a sleepover with her friends Kia and Gibb. They are later joined by Trey, Gibb's emotionally abusive boyfriend and his friend Blake. Jason enters the house and murders Trey and the police suspect Freddy. After a nightmare, Blake awakens to find his father decapitated by Jason, who then kills Blake himself. The police call it a murder–suicide the following day, hoping to conceal Freddy's return from the rest of the town.

Elsewhere, Lori's ex-boyfriend Will Rollins and his friend Mark Davis, who are involuntary psychiatric patients at Westin Hills because of their previous contact with Freddy, see a news report about the killings that prompts them to escape and return to Springwood to warn Lori about Freddy. That night, Lori and the others attend a rave in a cornfield. Freddy tries to kill Gibb in a nightmare, but Jason kills her first in the real world along with others at the rave, angering Freddy, who realizes that Jason’s killing spree will deny him victims.

Will, Lori and Kia escape the rave with school nerd Charlie Linderman and stoner Bill Freeburg. After dropping off the latter three and a confrontation with Dr. Campbell (who was responsible for having Will and Mark committed to Westin Hills) over Will's certainty that he saw Dr. Campbell murder her mother, Will and Lori head to Mark’s house, only to see him get killed by Freddy. Deputy Scott Stubbs, believing Jason is a copycat killer, makes contact with Lori and her friends, who deduce Freddy's plan. Learning about Hypnocil, they try to get it from Westin Hills; however, Freddy possesses Freeburg, using him to dispose of the medicine. Jason arrives, kills a security guard and electrocutes Scott. Freddy uses the possessed Freeburg to tranquilize Jason, causing him to fall asleep after slashing Freeburg in half.

The teens devise a plan to pull Freddy from the dream world into reality and force him to fight Jason, bringing the unconscious Jason back home to Camp Crystal Lake in New Jersey where the real estate is in development. Freddy fights Jason in the dream world, where he discovers that Jason has a subconscious fear of drowning. Freddy uses this to his advantage and Jason becomes afraid, reverting to his younger self. Lori goes to sleep to pull Freddy out and save Jason. As Freddy tortures Lori in the dream world, revealing that he murdered her mother, Jason awakens at the real Camp Crystal Lake and pursues the teens, killing Linderman. Lori is awakened and pulls Freddy into the physical world, where he is confronted by Jason.

Freddy and Jason fight throughout the campgrounds, during which Jason kills Kia. Freddy uses the construction site to gain the upper hand and cuts off Jason's fingers, allowing Freddy to take his machete. As Freddy is slicing away at Jason, Lori distracts him before Jason punches his fingerless hand through Freddy's torso. Freddy retaliates by plunging Jason's machete into his side and Jason rips Freddy's gloved arm off. Lori and Will set the dock on fire, causing numerous propane tanks to explode and throwing Freddy and Jason into the lake. Lori and Will embrace as Freddy makes his way to them on the dock and is about to kill the couple with Jason's machete, but he is impaled by Jason with his own clawed arm, allowing Lori to behead Freddy with the machete. Jason falls off the dock and Freddy's head and body sink into the lake, both seemingly dead. After dropping the machete where Jason submerged, Lori and Will leave. 

The next morning, Jason emerges from the lake, holding his machete and Freddy's head. Freddy winks and his laughter is heard in the background, leaving the winner ambiguous.

