Three days after the events of the first film, the Creeper abducts a young Billy Taggart in front of his father Jack Sr., his older brother Jack Jr. and their dog Mac in its 22nd day of feeding. The next day, a school bus carrying a high school basketball team and cheerleaders suffers a blowout, after one of the tires is hit by a hand-crafted shuriken made of bone fragments. Later a cheerleader named Minxie Hayes has a vision of Billy Taggart and Darry Jenner who attempt to warn her about the Creeper before it blows out another tire and disables the bus. With the team stranded, the Creeper abducts bus driver Betty Borman and coaches Charlie Hanna and Dwayne Barnes. When the Creeper returns, he singles out six of the students: Dante Belasco, Jake Spencer, Minxie Hayes, Scotty Braddock, Andy "Bucky" Buck, and Deaundre "Double D" Davis. Minxie has another vision in which Darry says the Creeper emerges every 23rd spring for 23 days to eat humans and she tells the other students.

After hearing several police reports, the Taggarts go hunting for the Creeper and soon make radio contact with the school bus. The Creeper attacks Bucky, but Rhonda stabs it through the head with a javelin. Dante begins prodding the Creeper's wing, only for it to grab and decapitate him. The Creeper tears off its injured head and uses Dante's severed head to replace its own. The students decide to leave the bus to find help, but the Creeper returns and chases them into a field, where it kills Jake and takes Scotty.

When the Creeper attacks Jonny, Chelsea, and Bucky on the bus again, the Taggarts and Mac arrive and Jack shoots it with a harpoon, which the Creeper fights him off, managing to escape after flipping over the bus. Rhonda, Izzy Cohen, and Double D find a truck and attempt to escape but are chased by the Creeper again. Izzy pushes Rhonda out of the truck before causing the vehicle to crash, injuring both Double D and the Creeper, who loses an arm, a leg, and a wing, although Izzy crawls from the wreckage before the truck explodes. The Creeper continues to pursue Double D by leaping towards him and, when it has Double D pinned down, Jack shows up and shoots the Creeper in the head with the harpoon. He repeatedly stabs the Creeper in its heart but it goes into a hibernation state before it can die.

23 years later, 3 teenagers drive out to the Taggart farm where the Creeper is a sideshow attraction called "A Bat Out of Hell" and the middle-aged Jack Jr. is charging entrance fees. They see an elderly Jack Sr. watching it with the harpoon at his side and when they ask him if he is waiting for something, he looks up at the Creeper and says "About three more days, give or take a day or two".

