On August 18, 1973, five young adults – Erin, her boyfriend Kemper, and their friends Morgan, Andy, and Pepper – are on their way to a Lynyrd Skynyrd concert after traveling to Mexico to purchase marijuana. While driving through Texas, they pick up a traumatised hitchhiker walking in the middle of the road. After they try to talk with her, she speaks incoherently about "a bad man", and pulls out a revolver and shoots herself in the mouth.

The group goes to a nearby gas station to contact the police, where a woman named Luda Mae tells them to meet Sheriff Hoyt at the mill. Instead, they find a young boy named Jedidiah, who says Hoyt is at home getting drunk. Erin and Kemper go through the woods to find his house, leaving Morgan, Andy, and Pepper at the mill with Jedidiah. They come across a plantation house, and Erin is allowed inside by an amputee named Monty to call for help. Kemper goes inside to look for Erin, and is hit in the head with a sledgehammer by Thomas Hewitt, also known as "Leatherface", who drags his dying body into the basement to butcher him. As he does so he finds the ring Kemper intended to propose to Erin with.

Meanwhile, Hoyt arrives at the mill, and disposes of the hitchhiker's body. After Erin discovers that Kemper is missing, she and Andy go back to Monty's house, and Erin distracts him, while Andy searches for Kemper. When Monty realizes that Andy is inside, he summons Leatherface, who attacks him with a chainsaw. Andy tells Erin to save herself and Erin escapes and heads towards the woods, but Leatherface catches up to Andy and saws off his left leg with the chainsaw. He then picks up and mercilessy carries Andy to the basement, where he brutally impales him on a meat hook and tortures him further by rubbing salt in his wounds. Erin makes it back to the mill, but before she and the others can leave, Hoyt arrives. After finding marijuana on the dashboard, he orders Erin and Pepper to get out of the van, gives Morgan the gun he took from the hitchhiker, and tells him to reenact how she killed herself. Morgan attempts to shoot Hoyt, but the gun is unloaded. Hoyt handcuffs Morgan and drives him back to the Hewitt house, giving him a savage beating along the way.

Back at the sinister house Andy awakens after passing out from the pain and in desperation tries to lift himself off the meat hook but Leatherface has booby trapped the chains holding it up causing him to impale himself further. Erin and Pepper are tracked down by Leatherface, who is wearing Kemper's face as a mask, and when Pepper attempts to run, she is killed by Leatherface. Erin runs and hides in a nearby trailer, belonging to an obese middle-aged woman known as the Tea Lady, and a younger woman named Henrietta, who gives her tea that has been drugged. Erin discovers that they have kidnapped the hitchhiker's baby, but passes out before she can escape. Erin wakes up at the Hewitt house, surrounded by the entire family: Leatherface, his mother Luda Mae, Hoyt, Monty, and Jedidiah. Luda Mae explains to Erin that Leatherface was tormented his whole life, because of a skin disease that left his face disfigured, and she felt that no one cared for her family besides themselves.

Erin is taken to the basement, where she finds the remains of Leatherface's victims. She finds Andy still hanging on the meat hook and tries to help him off it but puts him out of his misery when she cannot lift him high enough. Afterwards, she finds Morgan handcuffed in a bathtub with a wound in his back. Jedidiah, who does not agree with his family's actions, leads them out of the house, and distracts Leatherface long enough for them to escape. Erin and Morgan find an abandoned shack in the woods, and barricade themselves inside. Leatherface breaks in and discovers Erin, but Morgan attacks Leatherface, who then hangs him from a chandelier by his handcuffs, and kills him by cutting through his groin with the chainsaw. Erin escapes into the woods with Leatherface in tow. She finds a slaughterhouse and attacks Leatherface with a meat cleaver, severing his right arm.

Erin runs outside and flags down a trucker, whom she tries to convince to drive away from the Hewitt house, but he stops to find help at the gas station. Erin sees Luda Mae & Hoyt talk to the trucker while Henrietta watches the baby. But as Henrietta walks outside to give Luda Mae her raincoat, Erin sneaks the baby out of the eatery, and places her in the sheriff's car. Erin hot-wires the car and Hoyt tries to stop her, but she runs him over repeatedly until he is dead. Leatherface suddenly appears in the road and slashes the car with his chainsaw, but Erin escapes with the baby. Two days later, two officers investigating the Hewitt house are killed by Leatherface, and a narrator states that the case remains open.

