During a flashback to where hundreds of people crowded around in a quarantined area, a young Thomas (Luke Gallegos) is brought by his mother (Lora Cunningham) to be taken away for protection on board a train. On the train, filled with children, Thomas meets Dr. Ava Paige (Patricia Clarkson), who assures him that it's going to be okay. 

In the present, Thomas (Dylan O'Brien) and the surviving Gladers - Newt (Thomas Brodie-Sangster), Teresa (Kaya Scodelario), Minho (Ki Hong Lee), Frypan (Dexter Darden), Winston (Alexander Flores), Jack (Bryce Romero) and Tim (Gary Hood) are brought out of the Maze by armed troops. The Gladers are taken to a bustling facility run by Janson (Aidan Gillen), who explains that the Gladers, as well as survivors from other mazes, are there because they are Immune from the Flare virus. Thomas becomes suspicious of the facility's operations, confirmed when he sneaks out with Aris (Jacob Lofland), one of the first survivors to end up in the facility, and they find Immunes are being experimented on. They discover that Janson is working for World Catastrophe Killzone Department (WCKD) led by Ava, who had been presumed dead by the Gladers. After learning of a resistance group, "The Right Arm", hiding in the mountains, Thomas gets help from Aris to facilitate the escape of his friends. Pursued through the facility by Janson and his troops, the group ultimately escapes into the deserted outside world of "The Scorch".

Over the following days, the group evades WCKD troops and deals with flesh-eating Cranks, humans infected by the Flare. Winston becomes infected and chooses to commit suicide, rather than becoming a Crank. After surviving a thunderstorm, the group meets Brenda (Rosa Salazar) and her surrogate "father" Jorge (Giancarlo Esposito), who are leading a crew of survivors. When Jorge learns that the Gladers want to find the Right Arm, he and Brenda decide to help the Gladers get to the mountains, leaving behind their own crew in the process. When WCKD troops attack the crew's hideout, Jorge plays Patsy Cline's Walkin' After Midnight that is rigged to set off explosives to destroy the hideout and kill the troops, though Thomas and Brenda get separated from Jorge and the others. Thomas and Brenda survive encounters with Cranks and drug-crazed people in a nightclub, although Brenda is bitten during their escapade. Thomas has a flashback of when he and Teresa worked for WCKD, he had become disillusioned and warned Teresa of WCKD's plans, only for him to be taken by troops. Thomas and Brenda eventually reunite with Jorge and the others. Jorge intterogates Marcus (Alan Tudyk), the owner of the nightclub and the double agent of WCKD and the Right Arm, into revealing the location of the Right Arm. 

The group arrives at the mountain haven and find Harriet (Nathalie Emmanuel) and Sonya (Katherine McNamara), who had been Aris' friends from his maze, and they take the group to meet The Right Arm, led by Vince (Barry Pepper). When Brenda collapses, having been bitten by a Crank, Vince nearly shoots her until he is stopped by former WCKD scientist Mary Cooper (Lili Taylor). Mary explains that a cure can not be manufactured; it can only be harvested from the bodies of dead Immunes. Mary had argued with Ava over WCKD's method using Mazes to find and harvest Immunes. She gives Brenda an enzyme shot to temporarily stop the infection from spreading. That night, Thomas talks with Teresa, who reveals that she signaled their location to WCKD, believing that WCKD can save everyone from the Flare. WCKD troops capture the site, soon joined by Paige and Janson. Janson kills Mary, upon which Thomas triggers a fight between the Right Arm and WCKD. During the battle, Janson, Ava and Teresa capture and depart with numerous Immunes, including Minho, Aris and Sonya. In the morning, with only a fraction of survivors left, Thomas decides he's going to back to stop WCKD, rescue Minho, and kill Ava. The Gladers and the Right Arm agree to help Thomas take down WCKD.

