In February 1942, convoy HX-25, consisting of 37 Allied merchant and troop ships, making its way to Liverpool, enters the "Black Pit", the Mid-Atlantic gap, where they will be out of range of protective air cover for the next five days. The convoy's escort consists of the {{sclass|Fletcher|destroyer|1}} USS ''Keeling'' (DD-548), radio call sign "Greyhound", captained by Commander Ernest Krause of the United States Navy; the British Tribal-class destroyer HMS ''James'' F80, call sign "Harry"; the Polish ''Grom''-class destroyer ORP ''Viktor'' H34, call sign "Eagle"; and the Canadian {{sclass2|Flower|corvette|1}}, HMCS ''Dodge'' K136,<ref>{{Cite web|url=https://www.design-engineering.com/canadian-warships-give-greyhound-film-authentic-touch-1004035205/|title = Canadian warships give 'Greyhound' film authentic touch|date = 23 July 2020}}</ref> call sign "Dicky". Krause is overall commander of the escort ships, but despite his seniority and extensive naval education, it is his first wartime command. Three days later, high-frequency direction finding from the convoy flagship intercepts a German transmission and Greyhound identifies a surfaced U-boat heading towards the convoy and moves to attack. The sub tries to slip under Greyhound, but Krause sinks it with a full pattern of depth charges to the crew's jubilation.

As they return, another U-boat, bearing an emblem of a grey wolf, sinks a Greek merchant ship, as Krause moves Greyhound to assist, and with careful maneuvering evades a torpedo fired at his ship by the U-boat. Greyhound receives reports of five other U-boats from the other escorts, indicating a wolfpack consisting of six U-boats is staying just out of firing range of the convoy waiting for nightfall, when the escorts will have zero visibility. That evening, the U-boat, with the emblem of the grey wolf, torpedoes an oil tanker and escapes Greyhound by using an underwater decoy device 'Pill-thrower', tricking the ship's sonar into wasting depth charges. Krause chooses to rescue survivors from the tanker first before going to the aid of the other ships. This decision results in the loss of a supply ship. A member of the U-boat's crew, identifying himself as "Grey Wolf", taunts the convoy and its escorts via radio transmission, as the wolfpack commences attack that night with three merchant ships being sunk. 

The next morning, Krause learns that Greyhound is now down to only six depth charges. Greyhound and Dicky combine their attacks to sink one of the U-boats using surface broadsides. Dicky receives minor damage due to the close range combat, and Greyhound is hit on its port side by the U-boat's deck gun, killing mess attendant, George Cleveland, and two sailors. During a funeral service that follows, another ship is sunk and Eagle is badly damaged and later sinks. Krause allows the crew of Eagle to abandon their ship. Aware that he might compromise the remaining defenders, Krause elects to break radio silence by transmitting the single word "help" to the Admiralty. A return message deciphers 'expect aircraft' and 'point X-ray', which suggests reinforcements being dispatched and their rendezvous point shall be modified.

With the convoy close to reaching air cover, Greyhound battles two U-boats and after heavy fighting, Greyhound sinks "Grey Wolf" with a full broadside. Air support in the form of a PBY Catalina deployed from British RAF Coastal Command arrives and Greyhound fires to mark the location of the remaining U-boat, allowing the PBY to depth-charge and sink the sub and the crew rejoice. While assessing contact with the remaining U-boats have been lost, the head of the relief escorts, HMS ''Diamond'', arrives and relieves Greyhound and the other two destroyers of their duty, which will be due for repair and refitting in Derry. Krause receives congratulations on the four U-boat kills. While setting the new course, passengers and crew of the convoy ships cheer Greyhound's crew, after which Krause is able to retire to his cabin and gives a prayer of thanks.

