Jun is a webtoon artist whose published comics were full of negative comments as they were not "fun and entertaining". Jun's actual livelihood was being subsidized by working hard at the construction site as a side job. Jun gets sick about his situation and draws a webtoon in a drunken state, where the webtoon becomes a huge hit. It was a very happy moment for Jun's family to finally escape from obscurity, but Jun faces bigger problems and it is revealed that the webtoon is actually based on Jun's life as a secret agent. 

'''Past''': Jun is an orphan who possess excellent fighting and drawing skills. One day, a person arrives to see Jun, who followed the man and later became an NIS agent with the title of ''Elite Assassin''. However, Jun's  passion for webtoons still remained and usually drew pictures in his spare time while doing his duty. Realizing that drawing occasionally was not enough to achieve his true goal, Jun fakes his death by jumping out of a helicopter on a stormy night and disguised himself as if he had died in an accident.

'''Present''': Jun realises about his family's condition, where he soon publishes the webtoon's next episode. The NIS agency soon discover that the episode of the webtoon is actually based on a previous top-secret operation and realises that Jun is alive. The NIS agents tracks down Jun and interrogates him, but Jun receives a call from his nemesis Jason (who is the antagonist in the second episode) that his wife is held hostage and demands to bring Chief Cheon. 

The NIS agents capture Jun's daughter, but Jun's former colleague Cheol escapes with her and heads to Jun's location. Cheol and Chief Cheon teams up with Jun and the trio realize that Jason wants to avenge his brother's death by Jun and Chief Cheon. Jun, Cheol and Chief Cheon tracks down Jason's location, where they finally finishes Jason and his henchmen. Jun is finally proven innocent and lives a peaceful life with his family, where he also begins to write the third episode of the webtoon.

