Aryan is a cop from the Narcotics Division in Chennai,  who works alongside his batchmates Sathya and Varun. Aryan lost his twin brother, Dillip, who was addicted to narcotics, due to which he became a cop and his main aim is to eradicate all drug lords, known as ''Snake's den''. Alongside his team are Selvam, his team supervisor and Mugilan, a social activist and also Aryan's neighbour. When Aryan arrives home after catching two culprits, who were into drugs, he receives a news that Selvam has died due to a gunshot.

Previously, Selvam had concluded the guy behind this, but did not reveal so the culprit wouldn't know about it. Aryan and Sathya investigate around the house, and Aryan concludes that a drug lord was also involved in the murder, and they must find evidence. Mugilan is also targeted by the drug lord and his bodyguard and is killed. Before his death, he provides information about the drug lord in a USB stick, attached to his dog, Pogo's collar and sends Aryan a message. Aryan tracks down Pogo with the tracking chip installed in his collar and checks the information.

The drug baron is apparently Diwakar Kumaran (D.K), a philanthropic drug trafficker. Mugilan suspects his early source of income was with links of international drug cartels. D.K and his brother/bodyguard Rudra have links with politicians, so that their business cannot be derailed. Knowing this Mugilan and Selvam decides to investigate a place thought to be D.K's secret hideout, but they were both caught. Aryan starts a shootout at the place, and finally concludes D.K's role in drug dealing. D.K, who deduces that Aryan and his team were involved after checking the warehouse cameras, abducts Aryan's family and asks Aryan to meet his doom at a warehouse.

With a plan, Aryan and his team, tries foiling all of D.K's plan in one night and finally manages to catch D.K, who kills himself to prevent going into custody. In his dying moments, D.K tells Aryan that he is not the main drug lord where it is revealed that Aryan's twin brother Dilip is alive and is actually the main drug lord, who goes by the name ''Dexter''. In a flashback, D.K and Dilip were best friends, who escaped from a police attack  and Dilip had faked his death, when he and D.K found a bounty to start their drug business. After learning Aryan's involvement in destroying his business and on the suicide of his best friend, Dilip/Dexter swears vengeance on Aryan.

