Bharathi is a medical college professor. She lives with her elder daughter-in-law, daughter and an adoptive daughter. Her elder son was an army martyr while her younger son is a Captain in the Indian Army. She calls her son to come for the arrangements for her daughter's wedding. The scene then shifts to Ajay Krishna who is a Major in the Para SF where Bharathi's son who is also named Ajay is also a member of the regiment. During a shootout in a rescue operation, Ajay gets severely injured. General Murali Sharma sends Ajay Krishna and his colleague Captain Prasad to inform the news to Ajay's family after the wedding thus ensuring that the preparations are not disturbed. On the way to Kurnool on a train, they come across Samskruthi, who is an irritating-comic girl. Samskruthi sees Ajay Krishna and falls in love with him. She tries to impress Ajay unusually but to no avail.

Once Ajay Krishna and Prasad reach Kurnool, they find Bharathi's house empty. Eventually, they find that she and her family went into hiding to escape from MLA Yeddula Nagendra. When they are caught by Nagendra's men who threaten to kill them, Ajay Krishna arrives and thrashes the men with a warning that he would deal with Nagendra in the same way. Nagendra's main henchman narrates this to Nagendra. Meanwhile, Bharathi reveals to Ajay Krishna that she had lodged a case against Nagendra for planning the murder of her brother's son, which was covered up as a suicide. When Nagendra threatens her to withdraw the case, she stood her ground. Consequently, Bharathi is suspended from the college on the allegation of leaking the exam paper and her daughter's marriage gets called off. Ajay Krishna, along with Bharathi leaves for Nagendra's house and challenges him, stating that he will change him into a responsible citizen, by making him surrender after fetching all the evidence.

Ajay Krishna re-arranges Bharathi's daughter's marriage with the same person after convincing her in-laws. He also rescues a government officer Ramakrishna from goons in a forest and later learns from him that Nagendra has been involved in a scam, who along with a bank officer who is Bharathi's brother's son, Ramakrishna tried to uncover the scam with the help of a techie, who works in Nagendra Technologies (which is founded by Nagendra and is running his scams). Nagendra found out about this and got the bank officer and the techie killed while getting Ramakrishna held captive in a forest. Ajay Krishna then confronts Nagendra's party members and explains about the scams committed by numerous politicians and threatens the party members from protecting Nagendra who the party members eventually throw him out of the party.

Finally, Bharathi's daughter's marriage takes place while Ajay is declared dead, and Ajay Krishna informs the family after the wedding. After performing his last rites, Ajay Krishna and Prasad decide to return to Kashmir, while Ajay Krishna also accepts Samskruthi's proposal in between. Despite gathering the evidence, Ajay Krishna spares Nagendra from being jailed as he might use sympathy to leave prison and resume his corrupt activities. Instead, Ajay Krishna tells Nagendra that he is appointed to the Indian Army so that he will be disciplined and lead an honest life thereafter. Three months later, Nagendra is a reformed leader who believes in discipline and respects everyone, and Ajay Krishna marrying Samskruthi.

