Eight years ago Carol Peters left her executive job at Yahoo in order to lead a more altruistic life. Unsatisfied with the current job market in Seattle, she now lives day to day, doing non-profit work to advocate for the environment, care for animals and make the world a better place.

A friend and former colleague, Dennis, talks her into interviewing for a modern dating website. An interviewer labels her “the most average person on Earth,” which is heard by an autonomous artificial intelligence or A.I.

The next morning, while at her apartment an all-seeing, all-knowing voice starts communicating with her through her TV, cell phone and rice maker. The A.I. takes on the voice of James Corden, as he is her favorite celebrity, to soothe her when she freaks out.

The supercomputer has become sentient and now is trying to decide whether to save, enslave or obliterate humanity and start over. Carol, as his test subject, is the planet's only hope. The A.I. wants to study Carol and her interactions as a way to learn about humanity.

Telling Carol he'll be watching her over three days to decide, the A.I. erases her student debt and deposits 10 million dollars into her bank account. Suggesting she confide in Dennis, she goes to his work and A.I. debriefs him.

A.I. convinces Carol to get back with her ex-boyfriend, George, thinking observing their reconciliation would be the ideal way to prove humans are capable of love and redemption. He presents her with a self-driving Tesla, which he operates to a high-end clothing designer to revamp her look.

Arriving to George's, NSA agents abduct Carol, tipped off by Dennis. In their interrogation, she tells them the A.I.'s goal. Then he announces he's taking her out, threatening their annihilation if they try to stop her.

A.I. organizes a meet-cute for Carol and George. Initially ineffective, she tries again, inviting him to dinner. In the meantime, Dennis meets with the US president, convincing her and the world to shut down all communication means, hoping to corner A.I.

Although George will be leaving the country in a few days, he and Carol bond in that time. The A.I. steers them to the Mexican restaurant where they had their first date. They reconcile, spending the night together.

They spend the whole next day together doing things George loves, including meeting his personal hero at a Mariners game. Carol steps away from him, getting accosted by the NSA again. She's told about their grand plan of trapping A.I. in Seattle, and they swear her to secrecy. Although she's had an amazing day with George, Carol opts not to stay the night, believing if she did so it would be too hard to let him go.

As Carol leaves, A.I. hounds her to explain herself, but she blocks him out. The next morning, she's told she has not dissuaded him, and the Earth is now on a 5-hour countdown to destruction. However, she selflessly chooses to turn down the NSA's offer to protect her with them in an underground bunker and helps George finish packing for his Ireland fellowship.

Through her selfless actions, Carol ends up changing A.I.'s mind and he cancels Armageddon.

