In 1647, Tanhaji's father, Kaloji Malusare, trains him in sword-fighting, only to succumb to a Mughal plunder in Umrat. 17 years later in 1664, a now-adult Tanhaji, with his younger brother Suryaji, commands Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj's Maratha army to attack an intruding Mughal cavalry.

In 1665, the Mughal Emperor, Aurangzeb, dispatches his uncle and trusted general, Maharaja of Amber, Jai Singh, to capture Shivaji, which will stop his rapid imperial expansion into the Deccan Plateau. He successfully captures Shivaji, alongside his 23 forts that are under his control, in the Battle of Purandar. Later the Mughal general, Beshak Khan, orders a quick seize of Shivaji's strategic fortress, Kondhana, insulting Jijabai, Shivaji's mother. She swears to remain barefoot until the Marathas recapture the fort. Tanhaji is informed about the treaty as well. Five years later, in 1670, Shivaji's spy informs him about Aurangzeb's plan to assign Kondhana to his Rajput general, Udaybhan Rathod, and use it as a base for Aurangzeb's southern imperial expansion. Shivaji plans to recapture Kondhana, considering himself to lead the campaign as Tanhaji, though an able general, cannot be employed due to his son, Rayba's upcoming wedding.

Meanwhile, Tanhaji celebrates Holi with his family. The Marathas begin their preparations for war and Shivaji warns his generals to keep Tanhaji from knowing about the campaign. Tanhaji arrives at Rajgad, to invite Shivaji and Jijabai to Rayba's wedding. Chandraji Pisal, a Maratha general, who is attempting to usurp Shivaji's throne, discloses the secret plan to Tanhaji at his nephew, Chultya's recommendation. Tanhaji convinces Shivaji and Jijabai to permit him to lead the campaign, who reluctantly agree. He postpones Rayba's wedding.

Elsewhere, Udaybhan reaches Burhanpur, while the Marathas discuss the possibilities of his route. Tanhaji coins an attack plan, but Pisal sends Chultya to warn Udaybhan about the plan. Pisal schemes of sabotaging Tanhaji's mission and getting him killed, so that Shivaji would then appoint him in-charge of the campaign. Pisal intends to become influential enough to overthrow Shivaji and join hands with Udaybhan. Udaybhan is also bringing the imprisoned Kamla Devi, en route, the sister of his Rajput general, Jagat Singh. Chultya informs Udaybhan about Tanhaji's plan. He successfully tricks Tanhaji into attacking Maratha soldiers disguised in Mughal attire. Elsewhere, Udaybhan reaches Kondhana and aims a huge cannon, named ''Naagin'', at Rajgad, threatening Shivaji's safety. Dejected, Tanhaji reaches Kondhana alone to learn about a secret thief-entrance inside. Udaybhan kills a guard for disobeying the security protocol. Tanhaji recovers the remains of the guard and motivates the villagers to retaliate against Udaybhan.

He is invited to participate in Shivratri celebrations, on Kondhana, where he kills Chultya for betraying the Marathas. Tanhaji is imprisoned and tortured by Udaybhan, as a result. Jagat Singh secretly releases Tanhaji, revealing Udaybhan's plan to marry his sister. Tanhaji promises to release them from Udaybhan's clutches. Tanhaji escapes from the thief-entrance and returns to Umrat where he informs his people about the upcoming war. Savitri Bai, Tanhaji's wife, worries about her husband's life and son's impending wedding. Tanhaji convinces Savitri Bai that the campaign will be a success for the Marathas, to which she replies by asking him what he wants from her, when he returns from the campaign. Tanhaji makes Savitri Bai promise to him that she will don Maratha bridal attire, while waiting for him.

Udaybhan hangs the guards responsible for Tanhaji's escape and Jagat Singh agrees to get Kamla Devi married to him, on Ashtami's eve. He convinces her to fake the wedding preparations until Tanhaji and his army arrive. Tanhaji now plans to directly attack Kondhana during Ashtami night on 4 February 1670. He scales the fort through various entrances and begins the attack on the Mughal army. The ensuing confusion allows Jagat and Kamla Devi to escape. Udaybhan is alerted, who prepares to fire ''Naagin'' directly at Rajgad.

Tanhaji and his army wipe out most of the Mughal soldiers. Just as Udhaybhan lights ''Naagin'', Tanhaji arrives on horseback to stop the cannon from being fired. Though successful, Udhaybhan hacks off Tanhaji's arm in the process, gravely injuring him. With his remaining strength, Tanhaji fights Udhaybhan to death. It culminates with Tanhaji tying Udhaybhan to ''Naagin'' and pushing it off a cliff, ending Udhaybhan's brief reign. Before collapsing from his injuries, he plants the flag of the Marathas, successfully capturing Kondhana. Shivaji and his army arrive and conquer Kondhana, but Shivaji ends up breaking into tears over Tanhaji's death, uttering "Gad Aala, Pan Sinh Gela" (the fort has been captured, but we lost the lion). Later, Shivaji personally oversees Rayba's marriage, while Savitri Bai fulfill's her promise to Tanhaji by adorning herself as a bride behind closed doors, as she awaits his return. Aurangzeb's aim of ruling southern India remained unfilled for 18 years, until he himself came to try to claim it from the Marathas.

