On a date referred to as "the 14th", the Protagonist leads a covert CIA extraction during a staged terrorist siege at an Opera House in Kyiv. He is saved from KORD forces by an unknown operative wearing a red trinket. The Protagonist retrieves an artifact but his team is captured and tortured. He swallows a suicide pill but wakes up to find it was a fake; a test that only he has passed. He is recruited by "Tenet", a secretive organization who briefs him on objects with "inverted" entropy that move backwards through time. With his handler Neil, he traces them to Priya Singh, an arms dealer in Mumbai.

Priya reveals that she is also a member of Tenet and the man who inverted her bullets, Russian oligarch Andrei Sator, is communicating with the future. Sator's estranged wife Kat Barton is an art appraiser who authenticated a forged Goya by her friend Arepo, which Sator purchased to blackmail her. To get Kat's help, the Protagonist and Neil try to steal the Goya from Sator's freeport facility at Oslo Airport but are thwarted by two masked men who emerge from either side of a machine. In Mumbai, Priya explains it was a "turnstile", a device that inverts entropy – the two men were the same person, traveling in opposite directions in time. She reveals that Sator sabotaged his Kyiv CIA team but KORD got the artifact, which is plutonium-241.

Unaware of his failure to steal the Goya, Kat introduces the Protagonist to Sator in Italy, who plans to kill him until he mentions Kyiv. When he saves Sator's life after Kat tries to drown him, they cooperate to intercept the plutonium. The Protagonist and Neil steal the artifact in Tallinn but are ambushed by an inverted Sator holding Kat hostage. The Protagonist hides the artifact and rescues Kat. However, they are recaptured and taken to another freeport in Tallinn, where the inverted Sator interrogates them for the location of the artifact, eventually shooting Kat with an inverted bullet. Tenet troops led by Commander Ives arrive, but Sator escapes via a turnstile. To save Kat's life, they all invert themselves. The inverted Protagonist drives back to the ambush to retrieve the artifact but encounters Sator, who takes it.

To un-invert, the Protagonist travels back in time to the freeport in Oslo, fights his past self, and enters the turnstile, followed by Neil and a healing Kat. In Oslo, Priya tells him Sator now has all nine pieces of the "Algorithm", a device that future antagonists need to invert the entropy of the world and destroy its past. She planned for Sator to get the artifact so as to reveal the other eight pieces in preparing his dead drop. Recalling an earlier conversation with Sir Michael Crosby, the Protagonist realizes it is a nuclear hypocenter detonated on "the 14th" in Sator's hometown of Stalsk-12.

On a Tenet ship traveling back to "the 14th", Kat reveals Sator has terminal cancer and is omnicidal. He will return to a happy moment on a family vacation in Vietnam that was also on "the 14th" and commit suicide, sending the dead drop coordinates to the future via a dead man's switch. Arriving at "the 14th", Kat poses as her past self in Vietnam to keep Sator alive until the Tenet forces in Stalsk-12 recover the Algorithm. They use a "temporal pincer movement", with both non-inverted and inverted troops making a diversionary attack so the Protagonist and Ives can steal the Algorithm before detonation. One of Sator's men, Volkov, traps them in the hypocenter. Calling from Vietnam, Sator explains the antagonists are trying to escape the effects of climate change.

An inverted soldier with a red trinket sacrifices himself, enabling the Protagonist and Ives to escape with the Algorithm just as the hypocenter detonates, and as Kat kills Sator. As they break up the Algorithm to hide it, the Protagonist sees the red trinket on Neil's bag. Neil reveals he was recruited in his past by a future Protagonist, and they have known each other for a long time. He must now return to the recent timeline in which an inverted Neil dies. Later, Priya plans to kill Kat, given her knowledge. Realizing that he created Tenet, the Protagonist kills Priya first, watching Kat leave with her son.

