Lindsey and Kevin Kingston are two mischievous siblings whose sabotage the relationships of their divorced mother, Suzanne, determined to keep her single until their parents reconcile. Meanwhile, Nick Persons, a bachelor who antagonizes children, purchases a brand new car and boasts with his beloved bobblehead doll of Satchel Paige who comes to life of its own will though only Nick can hear him. After reaching his sports shop, he witnesses the woman of his dreams, Suzanne Kingston. On his way to talk to her, he is disgusted to find she has two kids, who turn out to be Lindsey and Kevin. Later that night, Nick runs into Suzanne and agrees to take her home after she has trouble with her car. On New Year's Eve, as weeks go by the both them bond and start getting closer to each other, when he brings her to the local airport to go to Vancouver for a business meeting, but her former husband Frank calls to say he is sick and cannot bring the children to the airport, leaving her to put her trust in Nick.

Once at her house, he meets Kevin and Lindsey for the second time. The three go to the airport, and Kevin accidentally damages Nick's car door. Kevin is suspicious when he learns that corkscrews, a gift he got from Nick, are prohibited to bring onboard planes, unable to get to a trashcan, he slips the item in Nick's jacket pocket, which leads to Nick being tackled by security. They decide to take a train, but the two kids jump off to collect a cape from a toy just as Nick boards, forcing him to jump off and lose their luggage. They then decide to drive.

Believing Nick is only their mother's friend, the kids are tamed but still continue to misbehave. Overhearing a phone call, the two learn that Nick not only hates them, but also lied about not having feelings for their mother. Kevin fakes an asthma attack to lock Nick out of the car. Lindsey then tries to drive the car away, but fails, forcing Nick to chase after them and trying to get in from the SUV’s rooftop. Lindsey drives the car in a butcher statue, causing the axe to hit Nick in his crotch. Later, Lindsey signals to truck driver Al Buck who believes that they have been kidnapped, causing Nick to accidentally drive his car into the woods and down a mountain, resulting in heavy damage to the car, overreacting him further. Ultimately, the kids run away to visit their father in a train with Nick pursuing them on a horse until he falls off. 

Once they arrive at their father's house, the kids find out that he not only lied about being sick, but cheated on their mother by starting another family. Feeling betrayed and forgotten, they begin warming up to Nick, as he does with them, when Nick tells them his father also abandoned him. While beginning to become friends, they continue their journey on the road, but still find themselves facing various mishaps at the party on the way. Eventually, Kevin vomits on the car's windshield after he ate too much sugar. While Kevin and Nick feed a deer some cookies, Lindsey accidentally scares it with a camera flash, causing the deer to attack Nick, resulting in him losing his car keys. Because of this, Nick tries to hotwire the car using his lighter, but accidentally causes the lighter to tip over and set the car on fire and explode. Nick takes his frustration out on the kids, but quickly calms down and apologizes afterward.

With the car now a heap of scrap metal, the trio tries to hitch a ride from Al Buck. Still thinking Nick is a kidnapper, Al leaves him behind and drives off; Nick hitches a ride from a billboard truck driver named Ernst. In Al's truck, the kids attack him, leading to a chase that ends in Vancouver, where Nick fights Al. During the fight, Kevin has an asthma attack and collapses. Nick rushes to his side and revives him. Witnessing the event, Suzanne believes trusting Nick was a mistake. After encouragement from Satchel, Nick goes to Suzanne's hotel to say goodbye to her and the kids. After Suzanne realizes how much Nick and the kids have grown to care for each other, Suzanne tells Nick that he is the one for her, and they kiss on New Year's Eve.

