{{Long plot|section|date=July 2023}}
Gigolos in Europe are being terrorized by a serial killer. In Malibu, Deuce Bigalow has lost his wife Kate during a shark attack and is invited by his former pimp friend T.J. Hicks to Amsterdam. Deuce goes to take his mind off of Kate.

After T.J. shows Deuce his boat, the pair go to a coffee shop where they get high and meet Heinz Hummer, a German gigolo. After leaving the coffee shop, Deuce finds Hummer dead in an alley, but thinks he is merely stoned and takes him to T.J.'s boat. When T.J. gets back, he immediately realizes that Hummer is dead. T.J. plans to dump the body, but skeptical of Hummer's reputation of being well-endowed, unzips his pants and examines his genitalia and is caught by a tour boat and labeled by media as a gigolo killer. Deuce is apprehended and taken to the police station where he is interviewed by Gaspar Voorsboch, a police inspector who wants to know of T.J.'s whereabouts.

Upon his release, Deuce finds T.J. at a restaurant and recalls that he saw the killer walking away from Hummer's body. They figure it was a former client of Hummer. T.J. convinces Deuce to find the killer by becoming a gigolo again, visiting the former clients and "rooting" out the killer. Antoine, Deuce's client from the first film, gives Deuce the client list at a restaurant but is killed by the Man-Whore Killer, which is believed to be T.J. when he is caught near Antoine's genitals.

Deuce and T.J. visit the first client on the list. While Deuce distracts the woman, T.J. breaks into her residence and finds a brand of lipstick that might be the kind found on all the victims. After leaving, Deuce finds Gaspar on the street and shows him the lipstick, but Gaspar dismisses it. As Gaspar enters the police station, his niece Eva approaches him and gives him his lunch. Eva slaps herself three times when Gaspar sneezes. Deuce helps her pick up the things she dropped and Eva explains to Deuce that she has obsessive-compulsive disorder. Deuce sees that she has a painting of a fish, so they go to the Amsterdam aquarium together. Deuce continues to investigate different women from Antoine's list. They include Lily, who speaks through an electrolarynx after a laryngectomy, and Svetlana, who has a penis for a nose from being raised in Chernobyl. Eventually, Deuce and T.J. infiltrate the Man-Whore offices, where the Man-Whore Killer murders another gigolo and T.J. is arrested when he again is caught inadvertently holding the victim's charred penis.

Deuce visits Eva's apartment and discovers items used by the Man-Whore Killer. Believing the killer to be Eva, Deuce confides his suspicions to a wary Gaspar, who then reveals himself to Eva as the real Man-Whore Killer before locking her up as a fall girl. Deuce then rides with Gaspar to the Man-Whore Awards Ceremony under the guise of protecting the man-whores.

But when Eva escapes and warns Deuce, Gaspar pulls a gun on Deuce and reveals that he is the real Man-Whore Killer. Gaspar tells Deuce that he was once a man-whore hopeful. While Gaspar was observing a demonstration on how to perform a certain sex act, one of his classmates offered to let him use his penis-enlargement pump. When the demonstration ended, Gaspar was horrified the demonstration was his fiancée. Gaspar was so aghast that he continued to pump until his penis exploded, causing the other men to laugh at him. He blames man-whores for the loss of his fiancée and his penis, and plans to kill them all at their awards ceremony.

At the ceremony, Deuce evacuates the building and gets into a sword fight with Gaspar, during which he mentions non-sexual romantic ways of pleasing a woman; his words move the crowd. Gaspar beats Deuce, but before he can detonate the bomb, Lily and Svetlana distract Gaspar. Lily sprays alcohol all over him through her stoma and then Deuce knocks out Gaspar with a trophy taking the bomb detonator. For his bravery, Deuce is given the Golden Boner award. He kisses Eva and accidentally sets off the bomb when the statue's penis bumps the detonator button. Deuce and Eva leave the scene.

The following day, Deuce and Eva come to pick up T.J., who has been released from jail, and tells them that he is entering a brand new prostitution market: gay man-whoring.

A post-script T.J. stops gay man-whoring and becomes a rapper called MC Extra Nipple where he didn't make any records and was shot several times. Deuce and Eva got married where they are expecting twin gigolos. Gaspar became a gigolo in prison....against his will. Lil' Kim ad a penis enlargement which is now 4 inches wide. Svetlana marries a man with a vagina for a face where everyone vomited uncontrollably at the wedding. A cat featured in the film only worked for food....big hairy balls. Kate's prosthetic leg is turned into a bong by an old Dutch woman.

