On Christmas Eve in Wichita, Kansas, lawyer Charlie Arglist and pornographer Vic Cavanaugh prepare to leave town after stealing $2 million from their boss, mobster Bill Guerrard. However, icy roads means their getaway is postponed. Vic holds the cash when they split up, biding their time until the roads clear.

Charlie visits Sweet Cage, a local strip-club owned by Vic and run by Renata Crest, a woman whom Charlie has long lusted after. She quickly deduces he is hiding something. Charlie hints at the money, and she suggests they run away together. Taking advantage of the perceived situation, Renata asks Charlie to steal an incriminating photo of herself and a local politician from Vic.

After talking to his friend Sidney, a bartender and bouncer at Sweet Cage, Charlie goes to another strip club owned by Vic, the Tease-O-Rama, and takes the photo from a safe. Before he can leave, Roy Gelles, one of Guerrard's enforcers, arrives looking for Charlie. Charlie hides in the men's restroom as Gelles enters. Roy reads aloud a graffito written in red sharpie on the wall above the urinal, "As Wichita falls, so falls Wichita Falls". After evading Gelles, Charlie goes to a local restaurant/bar, running into his friend Pete, who is married to Charlie's ex-wife Sarabeth. Pete is very drunk, and decides to tag along with Charlie for as long as it takes to pass out. Charlie calls Vic from a pay phone, seeing the same red Sharpie graffito above the phone. He frantically tells Vic that Gelles is in town, but Vic dismisses this, as Gelles has family in Wichita.

Charlie returns to Sweet Cage and gives Renata the photo. She tells him that Vic had called to warn Charlie that Roy Gelles was indeed tailing them. Charlie takes Pete home only for Pete to vomit in Charlie's car and then pass out on the living room floor. Charlie then "borrows" a Mercedes Benz that Pete bought for Sarabeth, and goes to Vic's home. He finds Vic's wife next to their Christmas tree shot in the head. Vic arrives and reveals that he's locked Roy in a large trunk. They take Roy and Vic's wife in the Mercedes and drive to a local lake, while Roy continues yelling at them from the trunk, claiming that it was Vic who shot his wife. Vic gets annoyed and shoots the trunk, silencing him.

As Charlie and Vic get the trunk onto the lake dock, it's shot open from the inside by Gelles, with Vic being shot in the process. After Gelles gets out of the trunk a standoff ends with Roy dead and Vic falling into the frozen lake as the dock collapses. Charlie realizes that Vic was going to kill him, so he drags Vic's wife to the collapsed dock and slides her into the lake, knocking the pleading Vic underwater. When Charlie discovers the money isn't in Vic's bag, he runs back to the dock to save Vic, but he has already gone under in the freezing water, entwined with his dead wife.

Returning to Sweet Cage, Charlie finds that Guerrard himself has come to town, and has tied up Renata. A struggle ensues, ending with Guerrard's death. Charlie and Renata go back to her place, where he finds the money hidden in her closet while Renata showers. Via flashbacks, it is revealed that Vic and Renata planned to run away together after killing Charlie. Charlie shoots her before she can cut his throat with a hidden straight razor.

As Charlie is driving out of town with the money, he sees Sidney on the side of the road with his kids in a motor home, and Charlie stops to offer assistance. Sidney says that he is out of gas, so Charlie lets him syphon some out of the "borrowed" Mercedes. As Sidney is trying to restart the RV, Charlie takes out a red Sharpie and writes "As Wichita falls, so falls Wichita Falls" on the back of the motor home. Sidney gets the motor home started, and after accidentally knocking Charlie down when the RV lurches backwards, he drives away.

Charlie gets up and returns to the "borrowed" Mercedes. Pete wakes up in the back seat, and the duo drive away together for warmer weather.

