Troy Johnson, the supplier of prescription drugs to fellow high school students in the fictional southern California town of Hillside, commits suicide. Troy's best friend Dean {{Not a typo|Stiffle}} finds his dead body but does not show any emotion about the loss of his friend. Dean is prescribed antidepressants by his psychiatrist father Bill to help "even him out". When Dean returns to school, he is antagonized by drug dealers Billy and Lee, who were supplied by Troy. Their friend, Crystal Falls flirts with Dean, but he soon realizes that her true intentions are for Dean to retrieve the remaining drugs in Troy's home, and he refuses to cooperate. To force Dean to procure the drugs, Billy and Lee plan to kidnap Dean's younger brother, Charlie as ransom, but instead they mistakenly kidnap another boy, Charlie Bratley.

The kidnappers hold Charlie Bratley overnight at Crystal's home. Bratley's parents are unaware that he is even missing. Dean eventually agrees to go to Troy's house to find the drugs. Upon delivery, Billy discovers that the bag does not contain the prescription drugs and starts a fight with Dean, leading to Dean's arrest. While trying to explain everything to Officer Lou Bratley, Charlie's father, Dean reveals that his brother Charlie replaced the drugs with a bag of the vitamins that their mother Allie sells. Neither Officer Bratley nor Dean's father believes his story, but he is released, whereupon his father increases his dosage of antidepressants. Meanwhile, Charlie {{Not a typo|Stiffle}} crushes the real drugs and intentionally puts them into a casserole that his mother made for Troy's memorial.

The next day is Troy's memorial service and the wedding of Mayor Michael Ebbs to Charlie Bratley's mother Terri. Lou finally realizes that his son actually has been kidnapped and begins to look for him. At Lee's house, Crystal asks Lee to help stop the kidnapping scheme, but he does not comply. Crystal goes to Dean's house for help, where she finds him hallucinating about Troy's death and finally expressing his grief. Meanwhile, a paranoid Lee, encouraged by Billy, tries to kill Charlie Bratley to avoid being caught, but Charlie fights back and slices the knife through Billy's eye. Billy runs out into the street, screaming in pain, and is hit by Lou's police car.

Dean attends Troy's memorial, where all of the visitors are intoxicated by the drugs that are in his mother's casserole. Troy's mother, Carrie discloses to Dean that she never knew her son. Dean tells her about Troy and acknowledges that they were best friends, and she thanks him. Billy is later sent to prison.  Lee, who successfully changes the narrative of his involvement during the trial, is acquitted. A closing voiceover explains that Dean and Crystal "escape together", and they are shown kissing.

