Widowed U.S. Coast Guard Rear Admiral Frank Beardsley moves back to his hometown of New London, Connecticut, with his eight children from his first marriage. After he and Helen North, a widowed handbag designer by trade with 10 children (four biological, six adopted), unexpectedly encounter each other at a restaurant while on separate dates, they do so again at their 30-year high school reunion.

Instantly rekindling their old sparks, Frank and Helen quickly decide to marry in a private ceremony, shocking both sets of children. They move into a new home on the same property where they shared their first kiss, joined by the North children's numerous pets (including a pot-bellied pig), and Frank's housekeeper, Mrs. Munion. It soon becomes apparent that Frank's very regimented view of doing things clashes with Helen's more free-spirited, laissez-faire attitude. Their respective children, shocked by the news of their quick wedding, initially do not get along well, even turning a planned lighthouse renovation project into an all-out paint fight.

Frank's oldest son, William, calls a meeting with his siblings and explains that they can rid themselves of their new situation by joining forces to make Frank and Helen's respective philosophical differences apparent, which will cause them to fight. However, while doing so, they gradually begin to bond, attending their siblings' soccer games and helping William in his class president campaign.

A short time later, Frank and Helen attend a formal Coast Guard dinner where his superior, Commandant Sherman, officially offers him the opportunity to be his successor. He respectfully declines it, citing both his obligation to the Coast Guard Academy and his new family. Meanwhile, as the young children have a food fight upstairs in the bedroom, the older ones throw a big wild party downstairs, which quickly grows uncontrollable. When Frank and Helen return to find the place in total chaos, Frank is furious, and while also upset, Helen's more laidback approach only angers him more. This causes their worst fight yet, and the children, realizing how happy Frank and Helen have been together, begin to realize that they might have pushed things too far.

The next day, Frank informs Helen that he has decided to take the position as Commandant after all, and they schedule a family meeting to inform the children. As the children return home from school, jubilant over having defended their younger siblings from bullies and with the news of William having won the class election, Frank quickly deflates the mood by telling them of his decision to accept the new position. Feeling guilty for having torn him and Helen apart, they set about undoing their mistakes, with the younger children enlisting Helen to aid in their efforts. Together, the older ones launch the family's boat in an effort to intercept Frank (thereby fulfilling his previous dream of having an all-family sailing team that failed earlier), but he is convinced that Helen no longer wants to be with him, until he sees her turn on the lighthouse spotlight (referencing a story he had told her earlier about a beautiful female lighthouse keeper). Successfully reunited, they marry once again, this time with the children involved.

