Miniature artist Annie Graham lives with her psychiatrist husband Steve, their 16-year-old son Peter, and their 13-year-old daughter Charlie. The family attends the funeral of Annie's secretive mother, Ellen, at which Annie is surprised at the number of mourners in attendance. She attends a bereavement support group, revealing her troubled childhood and that she and her mother had a fraught relationship until Charlie was born, when Ellen became a significant figure in raising her. Meanwhile, Steve receives a phone call telling him that unknown perpetrators desecrated Ellen's gravesite, but does not reveal this to Annie.

Peter is invited to a party, and Annie insists that Charlie go with him. On the way to the party, the siblings pass a telephone pole carved with an occult sigil. At the party, Peter leaves Charlie unattended. She eats some chocolate cake, though unbeknownst to her, the cake has walnuts in it. Charlie has a severe nut allergy and thus goes into anaphylactic shock. As Peter drives Charlie to the hospital, she leans out of the window for air; when Peter swerves to avoid a dead deer lying in the road, she is decapitated by the sigil telephone pole. In shock, Peter drives home and leaves Charlie's headless body in the back seat of his parents' car, which Annie discovers to her horror the following morning. Following Charlie's death, Annie becomes resentful towards Peter, a traumatized Peter drifts through life in a daze, and Steve tries to continue life as normal.

Annie befriends a support group member named Joan. Joan teaches Annie to perform a séance to communicate with Charlie's ghost. Later that night, Annie convinces her family to attempt the séance. Objects begin to move and smash, and Peter is terrified when Annie is possessed and speaks in Charlie's voice until Steve throws water on her. As Peter begins to be haunted by supernatural forces, Annie suspects Charlie's spirit has become vengeful and demonic. When she sees images manifesting in Charlie's sketchbook threatening Peter, she throws the book into the fireplace. However, her clothing goes up in flames at the same time as the book does. Her clothes only stop burning when she pulls the book away from the flames. 

Annie goes through her mother's old belongings, and finds a photo album that shows Ellen to have been "Queen Leigh", the leader of a coven, and Joan one of her acolytes. Another book describes the demon king Paimon, who wishes to inhabit the body of a male host. The summoner of Paimon will receive wealth and rewards. In the attic, Annie finds Ellen's rotting, decapitated body and occultist runes.

While Peter is outside his school, Joan appears and attempts to expel his spirit from his body for the demon king. In class, Peter is taken over by an unseen force and slams his head against his desk, breaking his nose. Annie informs Steve of her ties to Charlie’s sketchbook and begs him to burn it, as she cannot bring herself to take her own life. When he refuses, she snatches the book from him and flings it into the fire, only for Steve to burst into flames instead.

As naked coven members begin gathering both inside and around the house, Peter wakes after dark and finds his father's charred corpse, then quickly notices one of the coven members in a nearby doorway. A now-possessed Annie then chases him through the house. He attempts to hide in the attic; Annie follows him and then beheads herself with a piece of piano wire. Peter jumps from the attic window. A glowing orb enters and reanimates his body. Now displaying Charlie's mannerisms, he follows Annie's floating headless corpse into Charlie's treehouse, where Joan and other members of the coven—as well as the headless corpses of Peter's mother and grandmother—are worshipping a mannequin with Charlie's crowned, severed head placed on it. Joan removes the crown and places it on Peter's head, addressing him as Charlie. She then proclaims that Charlie is Paimon, they have "corrected his female body" and given him his preferred male host, and the coven hail Peter as King Paimon.

