After an outbreak of a mutated form of rabies that spreads from animals to humans, over 7 billion humans are dead or infected. People who are bitten turn rabid in 90 seconds. Morgan was riding in a car with his wife Janet when they were attacked. Both were infected, but he remained human with the ability to communicate with the infected.

Now with a large group of civilians, CDC scientists and U.S. military in an underground nuclear base, Morgan and virologist Dr. Gina Rose bring in the infected and interrogate them, hoping to find ''the'' Patient Zero and devise a cure. Gina struggles with tensions between herself, Morgan, and Colonel Knox, compounded by Knox being attracted to Gina while she is currently intimate with Morgan. Morgan visits with Janet, who is held captive amongst others in the underground base. She's being treated with an experimental treatment derived from Morgan's blood.

Gina is shown with a positive pregnancy test. Bodies of fallen soldiers are being cremated when one opens his eyes and attacks the workers and soldiers. After a one-on-one fight with Knox, he is subdued and asks to speak with Morgan specifically, who is surprised that the patient is unaffected by the music that has driven the other infected into a rage. He even lights and starts smoking a cigarette from his pocket. The team assume he's closely linked to Patient Zero. The patient reveals that he was a college professor and his school was attacked by the infected during one of his lectures. He was bitten, but still maintains most of his human abilities. The Professor tells Morgan that the infected are evolved humans, a more advanced species who are at the top of the food chain. Their debate raises Morgan's suspicions, and soon Morgan finds that another of their previous patients, nicknamed Pete Townshend, has a transmitter sewn inside his chest, revealing that the infected laid a trap to learn where the base is located.

The infected swarm inside, killing or infecting all the humans, including civilians. Now overrun Knox shoots his commander so the infected are slowed down long enough for him and Gina to make it to the elevator. Horrified by his actions, Gina grabs his gun. He tries to tell her he wanted to save her life. They begin to scuffle and the gun goes off, killing Knox. Gina goes to the cells where the infected are kept, and finds Morgan releasing Janet. Gina pleads with him to leave Janet since the treatments work but only temporarily, but he refuses. They sneak to Gina's lab, retrieve her samples, and crawl through the vents. They encounter an infected lab rat, which Janet kills before it can get to Gina. They make it to the parking lot just below ground level.

The Professor confronts them and explains that he came to the base to kill Morgan. Morgan is ''their'' "Patient Zero" and is a threat to their survival. They fight and the Professor starts calling other infected, until Morgan impales him on a pipe. The trio flee until Janet tells them to run and she will buy them time, telling Morgan he must leave her to save the baby, as she sensed that Gina is pregnant. This distracts Morgan long enough for Janet to close a heavy vault door just in time to stop the horde. Through a window in the door, Janet wipes a tear from her face, indicating that she was now able to cry and that the treatment was working and restoring her humanity, and mouths "I love you".

Morgan and Gina follow the tunnel out to the woods and find a motorcycle. They ride off into the night with Morgan understanding that he must do whatever it takes to take care of their baby and save some remnant of the human race.

