Philip Connell, a disgraced children's puppeteer, is forced to return to his childhood home in Norfolk, which is shared by his decrepit uncle, Maurice. The home is in disrepair due to a past fire. Philip is haunted by a horrific spider-like marionette in his possession, called "Possum", which he keeps in a leather duffel bag. Throughout his time in Norfolk, he repeatedly attempts to dispose of the puppet, but it inexplicably returns to him each time. He recovers a picture book about Possum that he wrote and illustrated as a young boy depicting Possum's origins and how it creeps upon unsuspecting, orphaned children, intent on devouring them in their beds.

Phillip frequently approaches a closed room in the house. Each time, Maurice asks if he plans to go in, to which he always replies no. Maurice frequently mocks Phillip during their interactions, such as mentioning the disgraceful circumstances that cost him his job and sadistically requesting that Phillip recount traumatic experiences of childhood bullying. He laments Phillip's attempts to dispose of Possum, reminding him that puppetry is something that runs in their family.

News reports begin to surface of a missing local boy, Michael, whom Phillip initially encountered on the train ride to Norfolk. Authorities indicate that a man fitting Phillip's description is a person of interest in the disappearance. He revisits his childhood school, though he is discouraged from lingering by the school's staff and treated with suspicion by the local residents. He is also plagued by strange visions and dreams of Possum creeping up on him in bed. Phillip continues trying unsuccessfully to dispose of Possum—abandoning it in the woods, throwing it off a bridge, breaking it and sinking it off a dock, and even burning it—to no avail. The search for Michael in the papers causes Maurice to remark to Phillip that there was a similar case back then of a boy being assaulted by a masked man. When Phillip breaks down in tears, Maurice comforts him. As the search for Michael continues to mount, Maurice informs Phillip that he will be spending some time away and warns Phillip to not bring attention to himself, or trouble back to the house.

In a period of distress, Phillip enters the school and requests that he be allowed to speak to his old form teacher, Mr. Grant. He tells the secretary that Mr. Grant "knew all about what had happened" and promised to go to the police with him. The confused secretary has him wait outside, but Phillip overhears her speaking with the principal about calling the police and he flees. As he runs, he finds himself chased by Possum, until he is seemingly overwhelmed by it, and passes out. Awakening, he returns home to find Maurice gone, but now has horrifying visions of becoming Possum himself.

Philip enters the closed room, which is revealed to be badly charred from a house fire. As he examines curious items within, he is suddenly attacked by a masked man in the shadows. The man removes his mask and reveals he is Maurice. He lewdly taunts Phillip about the deaths of his parents in the fire, leaving him orphaned and in his care, whereupon he physically and sexually abused him throughout his childhood. He muses about how Phillip always knew Maurice was the masked man who assaulted him back then, but that he still never told anyone. As Maurice overpowers a sobbing and mentally-regressed Phillip by beating and molesting him, Phillip hears a whimper from a locked chest in the corner. He overpowers Maurice and breaks his neck. Phillip unlocks the chest, and a terrified Michael scrambles away from inside it. Sitting outside his house, Phillip stares blankly ahead, with Possum's dismembered head in his lap.

