Over the course of the decade leading up to the summer of 1984, a total of thirteen teenage boys have disappeared in Cape May, Oregon but their disappearances have never been connected.

As the summer begins, fifteen-year-old Davey Armstrong, who works a paper route, initially enjoys carefree diversion with his friends, Dale "Woody" Woodworth, Curtis Farraday, and Tommy "Eats" Eaton. They spend their idle time in a treehouse on Eats' property, which he warns is in danger of being torn down by his belligerent father. They often fantasize about an attractive older girl neighbor, Nikki, who had previously been Davey's babysitter when he was younger.

When a local newspaper receives an anonymous letter from someone claiming responsibility for the boys' murders, Davey suspects that his neighbor Wayne Mackey, a popular police officer in their hometown of Ipswich, is the Cape May Slayer. Davey's friends reject this theory, on account of Davey's reputation for conspiracy theories and urban legends. However, when a boy Davey had seen inside Mackey's house appears on the back of a milk carton days later, they agree to help him investigate. Concurrently, Nikki begins visiting with Davey, confiding in him that her parents are divorcing and she will be leaving the neighborhood, and her mixed feelings about this major change.

The boys document Mackey's daily routine and discover many suspicious activities: Mackey regularly purchases gardening tools and bags of soil, brings a duffel bag to work everyday, and goes on late-night jogs. One night, Mackey witnesses Davey plant a walkie-talkie outside his window, leaving Davey worried that he is becoming suspicious. Woody and Farraday later discover a second vehicle and canisters of sodium hydroxide in Mackey's self-storage room, and Davey and Eats discover the bloodstained shirt of the missing boy in Mackey's garden shed. They present their evidence to Davey's parents, who are outraged at the boys, calling their investigation vandalism. Mr. Armstrong brings the boys to Mackey's house and has them apologize. Mackey expresses no hard feelings but Davey is grounded.

The next day, Mackey visits Davey's home and, having said that the boy who visited his home was his nephew, attempts to call his nephew as proof of his innocence, but the call is not answered. Davey discovers that Mackey dialed his own phone number. The following day, a suspect is arrested in the Cape May Slayer case, with Mackey the arresting officer. Disgusted, Davey makes plans to break into Mackey's home during the Cape May Festival. Farraday, who attends the festival as a lookout, discovers that the bags of soil were purchased for a city beautification project, and he and Eats abandon their posts.

Davey, Woody, and Nikki enter Mackey's home with Mr. Armstrong's video camera and explore a locked room in the basement, decorated to resemble Mackey's childhood room. They enter the bathroom and are horrified to find the missing boy's desiccated corpse in the bathtub, along with a still-living recent abductee. As they're escaping the house they see a wall of framed photographs, and they realize they're of the missing children, including a photo of Davey with his family. They present their footage to the Ipswich Police Department, who issue an APB on Mackey, marking him as wanted criminal.

Mackey, secretly hiding in Davey's attic, abducts Davey and Woody in the middle of the night and abandons them in his cruiser on an offshore island, announcing that they are to play a game of manhunt. The boys flee into the wilderness as Mackey pursues them, but lose their footing on a corpse dump. Mackey slashes Davey's leg before slitting Woody's throat. He corners Davey but decides to spare him in order to leave him paranoid and constantly in fear of his return.

Rescued and returned to daily life after a hospital stay, Davey retraces his morning paperboy route: passing Woody's foreclosed house; seeing Nikki wave goodbye to him as her custodial parent drives her away; coming upon Eats and Farraday trashing the now-demolished treehouse, both of them avoiding his gaze as they are traumatized over the death of Woody; and Mackey's house, plastered with police tape. He unfurls a newspaper, the headline announcing that the Cape May Slayer is still at large.

