Ten years after the events of the first film, in a secluded trailer park in Kalida, Ohio, the three masked strangers—Dollface, Pin-Up Girl, and the Man in the Mask—arrive in a truck at night to a couple's trailer. Dollface wakes a sleeping female occupant by knocking at the front door. When she investigates, she sees Dollface already in the house, who kills her offscreen and then lies down in bed next to the woman's sleeping husband.

Sometime later, Mike and his wife Cindy take a trip with their children, Luke and Kinsey, to their aunt and uncle's trailer park to spend time together before Kinsey leaves for boarding school. After arriving, an unmasked Dollface knocks at their front door and asks for Tamara, but is turned away by Cindy. Kinsey and Luke go for a walk and stumble upon a trailer with the door open. Inside, they find their aunt and uncle's dead bodies (the couple killed in the opening scene).

Back at the family trailer, Dollface knocks a second time and is again turned away. Troubled by the encounter, Mike and Cindy search for the children, who are in hysterics. Mike follows Luke back to the trailer to find the bodies, while Cindy and Kinsey return to the trailer. They find the cell phones smashed to pieces before Dollface appears and kills Cindy. Kinsey escapes through the trailer roof. Mike and Luke find the voicemail that Cindy left for their uncle in the trailer, realizing that the offenders were waiting for them to arrive. After fending off the Man in the Mask with a gun, they head back to the family trailer, where they find Cindy dead. They then drive their minivan around shouting for Kinsey, before the Man in the Mask throws a brick at the windshield, causing the van to crash, and Mike is impaled with a wooden plank.  He then gives Luke the gun, telling him to go find his sister. After Luke leaves, Mike is killed by the Man in the Mask with an ice pick.

Kinsey encounters Dollface and is stabbed before being rescued by Luke who points a gun at Dollface, threatening to shoot her. They instead go into another trailer and bandage up Kinsey's wounds, before the Man in the Mask drives his truck into the trailer. They escape and Luke hides Kinsey under a porch for safety. When he runs to the general store to call for help, Luke realizes he is not alone and escapes out to the swimming pool, where he overpowers and kills Pin-Up Girl. An angry Man in the Mask approaches and attacks Luke, stabbing him in the back and leaving him to die in the pool. Kinsey finds Luke and rescues him before setting off to find help.

A deputy finds a disheveled Kinsey, but before he can assist, he is killed by Dollface. Kinsey is able to seize the Deputy's shotgun and shoot Dollface, incapacitating her. Kinsey removes Dollface's mask and asks her why she is doing this, to which she simply replies, "Why not?" Kinsey then executes Dollface with the shotgun. The Man in the Mask arrives in the truck and totals the police SUV to prevent Kinsey from escaping. She uses her cigarette lighter to ignite a gasoline leak from both trucks, blowing them both up. The Man in the Mask, however, survives the explosion and continues pursuing her in his truck engulfed in flames. He exits in an effort to kill Kinsey with the axe, but is overcome by his injuries and falls to the ground. Kinsey flags down a passing truck for help, but they attempt to flee when they see the Man in the Mask appear, still alive, behind Kinsey. She climbs into the back-end with him in pursuit, but manages to knock him off of the truck by bashing him in the head with a baseball bat, finally killing him.

Some time later, Kinsey is at a hospital with Luke recovering from his injuries. As Kinsey awakens from a nightmare, she hears the jack-in-the-box toy noise she heard earlier when encountering Dollface, along with a knock at the door.

