In October 1960, a Vatican bishop, having received a letter and two photographs, instructed two priests to visit a Magdalene Asylum in Ireland, where a statue of the Virgin Mary is said to be bleeding from the eyes in the chapel. Of the two priests, Father Thomas Riley is the older, and is disillusioned in his work as a miracle investigator for the Vatican, complaining that he has seen too many frauds over the years, while the younger Father John Thornton is a priest enthusiastic about the assignment, and fervently believes that they will find a genuine miracle. The authoritarian Mother Superior of the asylum initially tries to discredit the letter (which had been sent anonymously from her hospice) by reminding the priests that ''"they are not all good girls in this home"'' and makes it clear that none of the priests are welcome, treats them grudgingly, and installs them in separate accommodation in the building.

To begin the work of documenting the alleged miracle, Father John sets up his film crew (16 mm cameras) in the chapel where the statue reported to have wept blood is located. Upon examining the statue, Father Thomas comments that he cannot analyse the blood, as it has dried up, and he needs a fresh blood sample, so they will have to wait for the miracle or phenomenon to happen again. Meanwhile, the young priest tries to interview some of the women in the asylum, but soon discovers that they have no access to the chapel and are in fact victims of cruel punishments imposed to ensure discipline, and are also exploited for labour, as they are responsible for both keeping the asylum clean and running the local laundry business. The abuse of the hard-working inmates is discussed with the Reverend Mother. Despite being unhappy that the priests have to document all their activities and conversations, she defiantly replies that the Church usually sends them into every dirty secret in the country, and they have had to deal with that&nbsp;... and adds, ''"Do you know how many Church messes I've had to personally clean up? How many of the babies born here had fathers who were fathers?"''

For two nights, Father John is constantly awakened at 3 a.m., as he hears strange sounds and has apparent visions of children playing in the hallways. He brings this to the attention of Thomas, who denies hearing anything at all. They also confirm that there are no children living in the asylum; the children's wing has been closed since the war. Father Thomas's long-standing doubts about miracles and human evil keep him convinced that a con man is behind these strange occurrences. However, on the third day, all the statues of the Virgin Mary in the asylum begin to bleed at the same time. Father Thomas analyses the blood and discovers that it is human, type O-negative, and that it comes from a pregnant woman. Father Thomas compares the samples with the blood of the inmates and the nuns, but finds no match.

A nun privately confesses that she was the person who contacted the Church to investigate the weeping statue. The nun warns Father Thomas that there is a young pregnant woman named Kathleen O'Brien being held in a secret room in the basement, and recites, ''"If your eye makes you sin, pluck it out and throw it away"''.<ref>{{Cite web|title=Matthew 18:9 ESV - And if your eye causes you…|url=http://biblia.com/bible/esv/matthew/18/9|access-date=2021-12-06|website=Biblia}}</ref> Despite the Mother Superior's stern objections, Father Thomas insists on seeing Kathleen. Father Thomas demands Kathleen's release when he sees her emaciated, scarred and chained in a filthy room. A local doctor confirms that the girl is a virgin, but that she is pregnant, and in his experience, he cannot explain how it happened. Attempts to move her beyond her room result in violent attacks and soon manifestations of apparent demonic possession. Father Thomas interviews Kathleen, who claims to be possessed by an unknown entity. Kathleen says something to Father Thomas in Greek. The priest attempts to pray with Kathleen, which causes a nearby nun to suddenly experience intense pain.

All the statues of the Virgin Mary in the building are suddenly broken. Father Thomas and Father John follow a ghostly apparition downstairs to a room that houses a satanic cult, and items found in the room indicate that a Black Mass has been performed. Father Thomas fetches Mother Superior to take her with him into the room, only to find that all evidence of the Black Mass ritual has inexplicably vanished. As they try to rationalise what has just happened, screams are heard from Kathleen's cell, who is stabbing her belly. Father Thomas intervenes and in attempting the ritual exorcism, Kathleen levitates from her bed and her hand also bursts into flames during another instance of supernatural activity. In response to what Kathleen told him in Greek, Father Thomas confesses to Father John that he was an orphan; furthermore, Father Thomas speculates that he may have been born in that very asylum. Kathleen cryptically says something to the priests about the babies who have been killed in the asylum. ''"The babies down there are suffering for the sins of others."'' Father Thomas questions Mother Superior about false records of missing children. Mother Superior explains that she sold the babies to fund the asylum. Kathleen goes into labour. The nuns attend the birth while the priests go in search of the doctor. Kathleen dies in childbirth.

Father Thomas and Father John follow the apparitions of more ghostly children throughout the building. The two priests return to the room where they had found Satanic paraphernalia, as they hear a baby crying. There they find a murdered nun, whose eyes have been gouged out; she is the one who had previously confessed to sending the letter. They then discover a secret passage leading to a network of tunnels where they discover several skeletons of small children. The two priests walk through the tunnels, but become disoriented and are separated when a nun attacks them. Father John is killed by the nun. After taping a confessional, Father Thomas finds a satanic altar where a baby used to be. The priest encounters a group of nuns who form a coven and are performing a ritual. Showing signs of possession, Mother Superior says, ''"Welcome home, Thomas"'' and suddenly attacks the priest. After Father Thomas falls, Mother Superior is heard shushing a crying baby.

