Olivia Barron is a college student who always puts others' needs before her own. She plans to build houses with Habitat for Humanity over spring break, but her best friend, Markie Cameron, convinces her to join their friends in Mexico. At a bar, Olivia meets a man named Carter, who invites the group to party at an abandoned church. There, Carter suggests they play truth or dare. During the game, their friend Tyson Curran reveals that Olivia has a crush on Lucas Moreno, Markie's boyfriend, which she denies. Carter admits that he tricked them into playing a supernatural version of the game and warns them to do whatever the game asks or they will be killed.

Back at school, hallucinations call on Olivia to pick truth or dare. She picks "truth" and blurts out that Markie has been serially unfaithful to Lucas. The friends learn that Ronnie, another friend, was forced to kill himself after failing to complete a dare. Lucas picks "truth" and admits to having feelings for Olivia. Markie is forced to break Olivia's hand, and their closeted friend, Brad Chang, is forced to tell his father he is gay.

Tyson disbelieves the game's consequences and dies after lying during his turn. The group discovers a story online about a woman named Giselle Hammond who lit a woman on fire in Mexico while playing truth or dare. They arrange a meeting with her through social media. Giselle reveals that one of her friends, Sam Meehan, got drunk and trashed the church. When they got home, the game continued, and only she and Carter survived. Carter was dared to involve more players to give themselves more time before taking their turn again. It is then revealed that Giselle has been dared to kill Olivia and she attempts to shoot her, but Olivia's friend Penelope Amari dives in front and dies instead. Having failed her dare, Giselle is forced to kill herself.

Olivia is dared to have sex with Lucas. During sex, Lucas is forced to admit that he cares about her but loves Markie. Olivia and Lucas drive to Tijuana and meet Inez Reyes, a former nun at the church who cannot speak. By writing on paper, Inez tells them how she summoned a demon named Calux to save herself from a sadistic priest. However, Calux kept a game of ''Truth or Dare'' running and killed all her friends. She trapped Calux by ritually cutting off her tongue and sealing it in a pot. The group realize Sam must have broken the pot and released Calux, and to trap him, they need to find him.

Brad is dared to threaten his father with a gun. As he does so, he is shot and killed by an approaching officer. Olivia learns that Carter and Sam are the same person. She is dared to speak the truth. Olivia tells the group that Markie's father sexually assaulted her, and he killed himself when she told him that Markie would be better off if he were dead. Though at first angry, hurt, and contemplating suicide, Markie forgives her friend and tells her it is not her fault because her father had previously been suicidal.

Olivia, Markie, and Lucas find Sam and force him back to the ruined church. As Sam goes through the ritual to trap Calux, Lucas is dared to kill either Olivia or Markie. When he refuses, Calux possesses him and forces him to kill Sam and himself. When Markie's turn comes, Olivia tells her to refuse a dare. Calux possesses Markie, at which point Olivia forces Calux into the game by asking him to pick truth or dare. The demon is forced to tell the truth that there is no way they can make it out of the game alive with Sam dead. They will die unless they add more people to delay their next turn.  Olivia uploads a video in which she briefly warns viewers about the game and its rules. She then asks "Truth or Dare", involving whoever hears the phrase into the game, delaying her and Markie's next turn.

