Mason Pettits lives a miserable life - he enlisted into the U.S. Army Special Forces, but lost his purpose in life after his friends were killed during a mission to assassinate Paldonian dictator Juan Venegas. After the incident, Mason was medically discharged due to his injuries ended up becoming a lawyer, a job that makes him hate himself, with a family of his own. One day, Mason is approached by his former comrade-in-arms, Sebastian Earle, who invites him for a one-time security job where he has to protect scrutinized journalist Claire Wellington as she goes to Paldonia to interview Venegas. The mission displeases his wife Jenny, who doesn't want their daughter Casey to live without a father.

After arriving in Paldonia and meeting Venegas, the group is ambushed by a coup that tries to kill Venegas, destroying the group's cars in the process. Mason fights off the assailants and the group walks into the jungle. Venegas deduces that the coup is led by his nephew Jorge, who hired Colonel Jan Koehorst to attack Venegas. Mason tries to leave Venegas behind while bringing Claire with him, but the two are ambushed by more militants. Mason, with a little help from Venegas, fights them off, and the group arrives at a village where Venegas is highly respected.

Claire successfully films her interview with Venegas. While Mason bonds further with Claire, he is unable to start a relationship with her, remembering his family back home. The next day, Venegas hints at a real purpose for Mason's job - Mason calls Sebastian, who informs him that he was actually hired to kill Venegas. Suddenly, Jan and his militants arrive at the village and chase the group; Mason and Venegas manage to escape while Claire is captured.

While on the way to Paldonia's capital, Venegas reveals that he wasn't responsible for killing Mason's friends in the military. Later, the two stage a trade with Claire, while Venegas reveals that he paid for the revolution as propaganda. The next day, during said trade, Venegas brings the revolutionists to distract Jan as he, Mason, and Claire run to the palace. There, Venegas convinces Jorge to help him lead the country better, but the latter is killed when a bodyguard conspiring with him tries to shoot at Venegas.

Jan and his army arrive at the palace, and a shootout ensues between them and Venegas' bodyguards, during which Mason fights Jan alone. Jan reveals that he was responsible for killing Mason's crew. Claire, who continuously films the battle, helps Mason defeat Jan. Afterwards, Sebastian and his team arrive and fight Jan's militants.

Some time later, Claire has regained fame for her footage in Paldonia, Venegas resigns from being dictator, and Mason reunites with his family before being gifted $5 million by Venegas. Now with a newfound purpose on his life, Mason decides to spend more time with his family.

