Seven-year-old Chloe Lewis has spent her entire life confined to a decrepit house with her father Henry, who forbids her from leaving under the threat of being killed by "the bad men". Despite her father's warnings, Chloe longs to experience the world outside her home and desires a maternal figure in her life, due to never meeting her deceased mother Mary. To help Chloe have a normal life, Henry seeks to educate her on general social behavior so she will one day be able to pose as a member of the neighboring Reed family. Chloe observes strange occurrences in the house, such as Henry expelling blood from his eyes and visions of a woman in her closet. Over time, she learns about "abnormals", individuals with superhuman abilities who are hunted by the government's Abnormal Defense Force (ADF) and contained in an underground facility known as Madoc Mountain.

When Chloe eventually manages to leave the house, she discovers her own abnormal power of manipulating a person's mind at the prodding of an elderly ice cream truck driver. The ice cream truck driver reveals he is Chloe's maternal grandfather Alan, who believes his daughter Mary is still alive. Chloe realizes that the ghostly woman in her closet is Mary, who is being held captive at Madoc Mountain. Henry and Alan are also revealed as abnormals, identified by their bleeding eyes. Henry uses his time-altering powers to cause only a few months to pass outside of the house during his seven years with Chloe. Upon discovering that Chloe has left the house and been in contact with Alan, Henry brings her to the Reeds with a large sum of money, only to be turned away when Chloe uses her abilities on the Reed matriarch Nancy. Nancy subsequently contacts the ADF to deal with Chloe and her family, but Chloe tricks the agents into believing the Reeds are abnormals and they kill Nancy.

Using her manipulation abilities, Chloe begins to help Mary escape from Madoc Mountain, but is hindered by the arrival of ADF Agent Cecilia Ray at the house. When Henry and Alan attempt to deal with Ray, the agent reveals she knows the truth about their family and a drone strike will be ordered on the house if they kill her. Ray offers to place Chloe under governmental care, but upon realizing Henry and Alan are stalling, a scuffle ensues that leads to Ray killing Alan and mortally wounding Henry before she is killed by Chloe. Henry manages to delay the ADF agents long enough for Chloe to ensure Mary's escape, then uses his abilities to slow time and carry his daughter out of the house as it is destroyed by the missile.

After Henry succumbs to his injuries, Mary arrives using her flight abilities and kills the remaining ADF agents. Mary promises to keep Chloe hidden at a new location, but Chloe refuses to continue hiding, believing that no one can stop them from living wherever they want. Moved by her daughter's confidence, Mary agrees and flies off with Chloe.

