A childhood accident leaves Leo mute and his devout Amish mother refuses surgery. As an adult in 2035, he works as a bartender at a Berlin strip club named Foreign Dreams owned by Maksim and dates cocktail waitress Naadirah. She confides in her friend and roommate, Luba, that she has not told Leo about her past or her desperate need for money.

After Stuart, a rowdy customer, sexually harasses Naadirah, Leo assaults him. Naadirah talks Leo down by telling him that she needs to keep her job.

Naadirah shows up at Leo's apartment and attempts to tell him about something important but is distracted when Leo shows her an elaborate bed he has been carving as a present for her. Naadirah is overcome with emotion and they have sex. Elsewhere, Maksim's mobsters meet two American surgeons, Cactus Bill and Duck, who run a black-market clinic. Bill desperately wants to leave Berlin and has pressed Maksim to provide forged documents for him and his young daughter, Josie. Duck, however, enjoys living in Berlin and runs a side business where he installs implants and performs cybernetic surgery.

Stuart returns to the strip club and taunts Leo, leading to a fight and Maksim firing Leo. When he's unable to contact Naadirah, Leo asks Luba for help, but Luba refuses. An anonymous text message leads Leo to a black-market bazaar run by Stuart. Bill and Josie are there, and Bill takes Josie away as Stuart confronts Leo. Suddenly remembering that Naadirah wrote an address on his notepad a while back, Leo leaves the bazaar after using charcoal to read the imprint.

Naadirah's address leads Leo to Oswald. When Leo expresses interest in a picture of Naadirah, Oswald assumes Leo works for Maksim's underling Nicky Simsek, who is skimming money from Maksim's prostitutes. Leo meets with Simsek, who is babysitting Josie. Leo befriends Josie and leaves the money from Oswald and a note incriminating Simsek in front of Maksim's henchmen.

After tracking down Naadirah's address, Leo discovers Luba, who admits that he has been using Naadirah's name to working as prostitute (under the table to avoid Maksim's ire) to earn the money the actual Naadirah so desperately needed. Luba, also in love with Naadirah, expresses his anger at Leo because she chose Leo instead of him. Using Naadirah's contacts on the phone system on the fridge he finds Naadirah's mother. Leo learns Naadirah is Josie's mother and Cactus Bill is her ex-husband and is responsible for Naadirah's disappearance.

After Bill and Duck torture Simsek on Maksim's orders, Bill discovers a recording on Duck's computer of a young patient undressing and realizes Duck is a pedophile. Bill threatens to break Duck's arms if he ever touches any child, especially Josie, but soon become becomes elated and forgives Duck when Maksim reports he has the forged documents ready for Bill. Bill takes Duck out on the town in celebration, offering his house to Duck and his job with Maksim, so Duck can close the clinic and stop working with kids. It is during this time that Duck casually reveals that he was the one who had been anonymously texting Leo, as a way to vent his frustrations with Bill. A security guard stops them for a casual theft, and Bill threatens to kill the guard. When Duck intervenes, Bill strikes him. Upset by this treatment, Duck texts Leo that Bill is headed for the club. Leo takes a support beam from the bed he made, uses it to beat up Maksim and his henchmen, and then takes Bill's forged documents.

In Bill's house, Leo finds a badly wounded Simsek and Naadirah's asphyxiated corpse in a bag. Bill murdered her because she was trying to save enough money to pay to have him deported. After killing Simsek, Bill attacks Leo, only to have Leo impale Bill on his own knife. Duck arrives at Bill's house, refuses to take Bill to a hospital, and instead, turns the surveillance camera installed in Josie's room towards Bill's face, so he will see what Duck will do with Josie, taunting him with the idea of his plans of the future molestation of his daughter.

Duck knocks out Leo and implants an electrolarynx so he can make Leo apologize for killing Bill. When Leo refuses, Duck takes him to the bridge in the one photo Leo has of Naadirah. He reveals that he took the picture on a trip with Naadirah and Bill. Despite finding out that all three of them were friends at one point, Leo still refuses to apologize and takes a deep breath and throws both of them into the water. Leo drowns Duck and swims to the surface where he finds Josie at the bridge's edge and uses his new voice to warn her away from the danger. Both of them safe and sound, Leo tells Josie he will take her to her maternal grandmother. We see Leo sitting with Josie in a restaurant while they both draw pictures.

