In Salem, Massachusetts, Hubie Dubois, a kind but dimwitted and cowardly delicatessen employee, is ridiculed by most of the city, and the victim of many practical jokes. He has annoyed police sergeants Steve Downey, Blake and Father Dave for ages. Hubie spends his Halloweens monitoring the city as the official Halloween Helper.

The day before Halloween, Hubie meets his strange new neighbor Walter Lambert, and news spreads around town about Richie Hartman, a convict and childhood friend of Hubie who has absconded from a local mental institution.

On Halloween day Hubie, working as Halloween Monitor, investigates Walter's home after hearing strange noises. Reporting this to the police, he is "recruited" by Downey as an "AUU" (auxiliary undercover unit). Hubie believes this assignment is genuine, but it is really just something Steve tells Hubie in hopes it will refrain Hubie from bothering him.

Hubie goes to a local Halloween party to monitor the activities, however, it soon turns sour. He is tricked into going into a corn maze seeking a lost child. Hubie's young co-worker Mike follows hoping to scare Hubie. He finds Mike and watches him get pulled into the maze and then disappearing.
 
Hubie moves his attention to a drive-in cinema, where his old classmates Lester and Mary Hennessey scare him. They falsely report suspicious activity in one of the cars (who turn out to be trick-or-treaters driven by Mr. Hennessey to throw eggs at Hubie). Hubie flees into the woods and finds Walter, who thinks he is turning into a werewolf. He chases Hubie to a haunted house in a fun fair that is overseen by Chantal Taylor. Mr. and Mrs. Hennessey are kidnapped and Sgt. Downey is alerted. 

At the haunted house, Hubie sees a male Siberian Husky, believing he is Walter in his final form. The dog defecates, eats his own excrement, runs into the haunted house and Hubie chases him inside. It is eventually shown that the Husky is Miss Taylor's dog Buster. Pete Landolfa goes in to scare Hubie, but is kidnapped right in front of him. 

Sgt. Downey arrives and suggests to Mayor Benson that they cancel Halloween. Hubie thinks it is Walter, but then Blake calls Downey. Walter has been at the police station with Richie, as they had turned themselves in. Walter's real name is Nick Hudson and Richie had escaped to bring him back to the mental institution, which they refer to as the werewolf treatment center. Downey, Benson, and Dave believe that Hubie is the kidnapper and is getting revenge on his bullies. He runs away and goes to the radio station.

DJ Aurora tells Hubie that someone calls a lot more than him always requesting a song for Hubie. They all think Sgt. Downey's ex-wife Violet Valentine is the caller. The burner phone that was planted when called is revealed to be in Hubie's house and he races there, hoping his mother is okay. 

It is revealed that Hubie's mother kidnapped Pete, Mike, and the Hennesseys as revenge for tormenting Hubie and plans to burn them alive. He rescues them just as the police, the news media, Nick, and Richie arrive, but they are still ungrateful. His mother then scolds them all for the things they did to Hubie and they admit that they were jealous of him for various reasons. Hubie's mother suddenly disappears upon using the Frankenstein trick.

One year later, Hubie is married to Violet, is the new Mayor of Salem, and his new foster kids are going trick or treating dressed like people they know. Having earned respect from the locals, Hubie goes into town on his bicycle with Downey escorting him and prepares for the Halloween festivities.

