In Edgewater, Indiana, James Madison High School's head of the PTA, Mrs. Greene announces the school's prom will be canceled as the lesbian student Emma Nolan planned to attend with a girl. Emma's girlfriend is Alyssa, Mrs. Greene's closeted daughter. Principal Tom Hawkins supports Emma, but is powerless against the PTA's decision.

Meanwhile, in NYC, Broadway stars Dee Dee Allen and Barry Glickman are disappointed after their show ''Eleanor! The Eleanor Roosevelt Story'' closes on opening night as the ''New York Times'' blasts their performances. They are comforted by former sitcom star Trent Oliver, who now only plays forgettable supporting roles, and Angie Dickinson, who just quit the chorus line of ''Chicago'' after being passed over for the role of Roxie Hart.

Barry realizes they all need a cause to revitalize their careers. Finding Emma's story on Twitter, the actors drive to Indiana with the non-Equity touring cast of ''Godspell'' and publicist Sheldon Saperstein.

At school, Emma is bullied and harassed by students Kaylee, Shelby, Nick and Kevin, who blame her for ruining prom. The actors barge into the next PTA meeting and attempt to rally support for Emma. Hawkins, a big fan of Dee Dee's, unsuccessfully tries to get her to back off.

The actors book a gig as the entertainment for a monster truck rally, but are booed off the stage for preaching about acceptance. Hawkins tells them the Indiana Supreme Court has ruled that James Madison must allow Emma to attend prom. That evening, he and Dee Dee bond over dinner.

The next day, is {{Linktext|promposal}} day. Barry visits Emma at her grandmother Bea's. She has been living here since her sixteenth birthday when her parents threw her out for being gay. Barry tells Emma that he ran away from home at 16 because he knew his parents wouldn't accept his sexual orientation and has not spoken to them since.

It is later revealed that the PTA has exploited a loophole in the Court's ruling by arranging for her to attend a separate prom alone while the rest of the students go to the real one at a private club. Emma calls Alyssa for support, however she is too scared of losing her mother to come out. Hawkins is disgusted when he learns the real reason that Dee Dee came to Indiana was to use Emma to prop up her career.

The next day, Mrs. Greene holds a press conference about the two proms. Angie comforts a heartbroken Emma, while Barry persuades Dee Dee to get Emma on her ex-husband Eddie Sharp's talk show; in response, she insists that he call his mother Vera and make peace with her. Dee Dee apologizes to Hawkins for lying to him and they reconcile. Emma, upset that Alyssa won't stand up to her mother, breaks up with her.

Trent confronts Emma's tormentors, persuading them to support her with help from the ''Godspell'' cast. Dee Dee arrives at the motel and tells everyone she traded Eddie her house in The Hamptons for Emma's slot on his show. However, Emma turns the offer down to tell her story her own way. She sings a song she wrote during a livestream, which goes viral.
 
The actors pool their finances to throw an all-inclusive prom for Emma. Afterward, Dee Dee tells Barry she called Vera, who wants to talk to him. Vera apologizes to Barry for her past treatment of him, so they make peace.

Kaylee, Shelby, Nick and Kevin apologize to Alyssa and Emma for their behavior. Mrs. Greene tries to stop their preparations for the prom. When Alyssa reveals who she really is, her mother leaves. Alyssa and Emma reconcile.

Later that night, Emma and Alyssa arrive early to meet with the actors, Sheldon, Bea, and Vera. Angie learns that she has been cast as Roxie Hart as Tina Louise has contracted shingles, Trent retires from acting to become James Madison's new drama teacher, and Barry is crowned prom queen. The students and many teens from the local LGBT community show up to the prom in support of Emma. As the event begins, Mrs. Greene arrives, apologizes, and embraces Alyssa, accepting her for who she is. Dee Dee and Principal Hawkins share a kiss and start a relationship. Emma and Alyssa share their first public kiss and everyone celebrates.

