Lara Jean Covey's high school sets up a volunteer program. While her boyfriend Peter Kavinsky volunteers with his friends, Lara Jean goes to Belleview Retirement Home instead,  following in her older sister Margot's footsteps.

On her first day there, she meets Stormy, an eccentric old lady who Margot often mentioned, and also discovers that John Ambrose McClaren volunteers at Belleview. They talk about a love letter she had written to him many years ago, and he lets her read the letter as long as she gives it back to him afterward. Lara Jean is unable to stop thinking about their conversation and, in addition, is constantly insecure about her relationship with Peter because she cannot stop comparing herself with her ex-best friend, and Peter's ex-girlfriend, Gen.

On Valentine's Day, Lara Jean witnesses her classmates being serenaded by special acapella groups and is told that Peter had sent a group to serenade Gen every period, back when they were still dating. This enhances her insecurity, though she forgets about this when she meets with Peter later that day. He gives her a silver heart necklace and reads a poem, which she believes is original but turns out to be two verses of an Edgar Allan Poe poem. He later apologizes and tells her he wishes he could write something like that for her, though he means everything in the poem.

While volunteering at Belleview, Lara Jean and John Ambrose grow closer and throw a Star Ball there after discovering some old decorations. He appears to be developing feelings for her, who has not told him about her relationship with Peter. Lara Jean and John Ambrose go to the treehouse where they hung out in middle school to dig up the time capsule they buried years ago with their friends, including Gen, and take turns unpacking it. Gen claims that she didn't put anything in the time capsule. Peter gets jealous of John Ambrose and reveals his relationship with Lara Jean. She and Peter argue but finally make up.

The next day, Lara Jean apologizes to John Ambrose for not telling him about Peter, and then dresses up for Peter's game. As she is waiting for him to come out to meet her, Chris shows her a photo of Peter and Gen. She confronts Peter and realizes that he never stopped talking to Gen and that, on the ski trip, Peter was planning to get back together with Gen. 

As Peter is in a rush to get to the game, he tells Lara Jean they will have to talk about it later, but she is too hurt and breaks up with him. She goes to the treehouse and meets Gen, who reveals that Peter was only comforting her as her parents are separating, and that she went to Peter because he had undergone the same experience. She also says that Peter is crazy about Lara Jean, and that she shouldn't doubt him. Gen then reveals that she had, in fact, put a friendship bracelet identical to Lara Jean's in the capsule, and was too embarrassed to show it. Lara Jean realizes that it was her and not Peter who always had Gen on her mind, and makes up with her.

On the night of the retirees' ball, Stormy gives Lara Jean a dress and a makeover. She and John Ambrose dance before going outside in the snow. When they kiss, Lara Jean realizes that she truly loves Peter and does not hold feelings for John. She apologizes to him and rushes outside, surprised to find Peter waiting for her. He is there because he remembers she does not like driving in the snow, a fact that she told him on their first date. 

Peter says Lara Jean can break his heart if she wants, but instead she says that she loves him, and he tells her he loves her back. They kiss and make up, and in an ending voiceover Lara Jean says that she had wanted a fairy-tale relationship with Peter, but is now satisfied with what she has.

