On the night of 1 March 1953, Joseph Stalin calls the director of Radio Moscow and demands a recording of the live recital of Mozart's Piano Concerto No. 23 that has just concluded. The performance was not recorded, so the director, not wanting to anger Stalin, hurriedly refills the now-half-empty auditorium, fetches a new conductor to replace the original one (who has fainted), and orders the orchestra to play again. Pianist Maria Yudina initially refuses to perform for the cruel dictator, but ultimately is persuaded to comply.

Meanwhile, Stalin is hosting a tense, but rowdy, gathering of members of the Central Committee at his home, Kuntsevo Dacha. As Foreign Minister Vyacheslav Molotov leaves, NKVD-head Lavrentiy Beria reveals to Nikita Khrushchev and Deputy Chairman Georgy Malenkov that Molotov is to be part of the latest purge. When the recording of the performance arrives, Stalin finds a note that Maria managed to hide in the record sleeve, in which she admonishes him and expresses her hope for his death. He reads it, laughs, and suffers a cerebral haemorrhage. Despite hearing him fall, Stalin's guards, fearful of being punished for disturbing him, do not enter his office.

Stalin's housemaid discovers him, unconscious, the next morning. The members of the Central Committee each learn about the situation through their own networks and rush to the dacha. Beria, who is the first to get there, finds Maria's note. Once Malenkov, Khrushchev, Lazar Kaganovich, Anastas Mikoyan, and Nikolai Bulganin also arrive, the Committee finally decides to send for a team of doctors. Most of the best doctors in Moscow have been arrested for being part of an alleged plot, however, so the doctors who can be found are not very impressive. After a brief bout of terminal lucidity, Stalin dies. While the members of the Committee return to Moscow, Beria's order for the NKVD to take over the Soviet Army–held security postings across Moscow is carried out.

Beria and Khrushchev vie for the support of Stalin's children, Svetlana and her unstable, alcoholic brother Vasily, and also Molotov. Beria has Molotov removed from the list of those to be rounded up, and has his wife released from prison. Although the Committee names Malenkov chairman, he is essentially a puppet of Beria, who further exerts control by hijacking Khrushchev's proposed reforms, such as releasing political prisoners and loosening clergical restrictions, while Khrushchev is relegated to planning Stalin's funeral. After Beria learns Khrushchev and Maria are casually acquainted, he threatens Khrushchev with Maria's note, so Khrushchev, to create problems for the NKVD, reverses Beria's order to halt all transportation into Moscow. The Committee wants to blame junior NKVD officers when 1,500 arriving mourners are killed, but Beria angrily dissents, believing that would amount to blaming him, and threatens his colleagues with documents detailing their involvement in various purges.

Marshal Georgy Zhukov, irate over the supplanting of the military by the NKVD, agrees to support Khrushchev in a coup against Beria, so long as it occurs after Stalin's funeral the next day and Khrushchev can get the rest of the Committee on board. With time running out, Khrushchev cannot get Malenkov to discuss his plan, but he tells everyone else that the decision is unanimous, and they commit themselves. Khrushchev gives Zhukov the green light, and the Soviet Army reclaims its posts from the NKVD. Zhukov, assisted by a group of soldiers led by Kiril Moskalenko, storms into a meeting of the Committee and arrests Beria. Malenkov does not intervene and reluctantly signs Beria's death warrant, horrified at what he had done to his victims. At Beria's emergency trial, Khrushchev accuses him of counter-revolutionary activities, sexual assault, and pedophilia, and immediately declares him guilty after evidence of the final accusation is delivered by the Soviet army. Beria is summarily shot in the head, and Zhukov has his body burned in the courtyard. Despite Svetlana's protests, Khrushchev sends her to Soviet-occupied Vienna, while keeping Vasily in Russia, where he can be watched. He concurs with Kaganovich that Malenkov is too weak to lead.

In 1956, Maria is the soloist at another performance of Concerto No. 23. Khrushchev, having triumphed over the other members of the Committee to become the new leader of the Soviet Union, is in attendance. Brezhnev, who will succeed Khrushchev in 1964, eyes Khrushchev from his seat.

