Chow Ti is a poor construction worker. He lives in a partially demolished house with his nine-year-old son, Dicky. Ti is eager to save money so he can continue sending his son to private school. Dicky is often bullied by other children, particularly by a boy named Johnny. He is also chided by his teachers at school for his shabby clothes.

One day, while at a department store, Dicky begs his father to buy him a popular robotic toy called CJ1. Ti cannot afford it, and the situation ends badly when Ti smacks the stubborn Dicky in front of other customers. Dicky finds comfort in Ms. Yuen, who is passing by. That night, Ti visits the junkyard, where he often picks up home appliances and clothes for Dicky. He finds a strange green orb left by a space saucer and takes it home, telling Dicky it is a new toy. He is hesitant at first, but later accepts it. On the following evening, the green orb transforms into a cute and cuddly dog-like alien creature that befriends Dicky. After playing with the alien, he learns that it has restorative powers after it restores a rotten apple that fell to the ground. Dicky is very thrilled and names the alien "CJ7".

Dicky dreams about the alien helping him gain popularity and good grades at school. In his dream, CJ7 is a genius inventor who creates various gadgets for him. Upon waking up, Dicky expects CJ7 to help him achieve his dreams, but CJ7 does not understand what Dicky asks of him and embarrasses him by repeatedly defecating on him, causing him to become a laughing stock at school. After school, Dicky throws CJ7 into a garbage bin, but soon realizes that he was the one at fault. He rushes back to try and recover CJ7 from the bin, but it has been emptied by a garbage truck to his dismay. Going home, Dicky finds CJ7 sitting with Ti. The two reconcile.

At school, Dicky shares CJ7's tricks with other students. Meanwhile, Ti loses his job when he gets into an argument with his boss, who accuses Dicky of cheating on his test. He returns home, only to find out that Dicky did cheat. He angrily confiscates CJ7 from him until his grades improve. The next day, Ti's boss apologizes and rehires him with a bonus. Ti falls from a great height during work and is sent to the hospital. Ms. Yuen tells Dicky of Ti's accident just after he passed a test without cheating. At the hospital, Ms. Yuen informs Dicky that Ti has died. Unwilling to believe this, Dicky runs home. CJ7 uses up all of his power to heal Ti. The next day, Dicky finds Ti sleeping beside him, but CJ7 exhausts its energy and turns into a doll. Dicky wears CJ7 as a neck pendant.

In the end, Dicky sees a UFO descending onto the bridge before him. Many other alien dogs like CJ7 of various colors and patterns emerge, running towards him, led by one that looks exactly like CJ7.

