{{plot|date=November 2023}} 
Relating to chaos theory and the butterfly effect, geneticist Govindarajan Ramaswamy aka Govind addresses an event at Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, Chennai and details the Shaivite Chola emperor Kulothunga II's persecution of Vaishnavites in the 12th century Chidambaram. But a Vasihnavite priest named Rangarajan Ramanuja Nambi resists Kulothunga's attempts to demolish an idol of Vishnu and offends the king, prompting the king to drown Nambi in the sea along with the idol and Nambi's wife Kodhai commits suicide infront of the king. 

On 20 December 2004, Govind is a bio-scientist at ''BEAGLE II Labortaries'', a US-based corporate company researching on nanobiotechnology and pathogens. He witnesses Hanu, the lab monkey, swallowing a viral vector intended to be a bio-weapon for defending further terrorist actions after September 11 attacks as per the orders of the President of United States George W. Bush. Grieving Hanu's death, Govind quarantines the lab and fills it with concentrated salt solution to deactivate the virus; he refuses to relinquish the main vial, having recognized its lethal potential and dreading misuse. Govind discerns the senior scientist Dr. Sethu's malicious plan of selling the vial to a terrorist organization and absconds with the vial while the guards and officials pursue him. He flees to the residence of his colleague Suresh, who deceives him. Christian Fletcher, a ruthless ex-CIA agent and mercenary working for a terrorist group, fast-ropes down to Suresh's apartment with a crossbow, murders Suresh and attempts to seize the vial. While Govind makes a quick exit with the vial, Yukha Narahazi, Suresh's wife and an Aikido champion from Hiroshima, fights Fletcher and protects Govind only to be killed ultimately. Govind meets his friend Sairam, who inadvertently ships the package containing vial to India; Govind boards the aircraft carrying the virus, flies to India and discovers that the package is being delivered to Krishnaveni, an aged woman in Chidambaram. 

In Japan, Shingen Narahazi, a skilled martial arts teacher, is notified of his sister Yukha's death and sets out to avenge the tragedy. Balram Naidu, an unconventional Telugu police officer, apprehends Govind in Chennai and misbelieve that Govind is involved with the terrorists. Having arrived in India and married Jasmine, a translator, Fletcher abducts Govind and an official Bharath; the arrival of a renowned pop singer Avatar Singh at the airport eases their evasion. Midway, Govind escapes with Bharath's assistance and reaches Chidambaram. Fletcher follows him with Jasmine and an aide Kumar. Govind meets Krishnaveni and her clumsy granddaughter Andal to retrieve the package; after discovering the vial's potential, Krishnaveni puts it into an idol of Vishnu, asking Him to protect it from exploitation while the idol is being carried in a festive procession. Fletcher provokes an elephant to create chaos, amidst which Jasmine is impaled on an iron rod on the wall. Having noticed Govind escape with the vial while Andal pursues him for the idol, Fletcher kills Jasmine and chases them. Govind and Andal are seized by a mob of illegal sand miners, whose chief Sundaram tries to molest Andal. Vincent Poovaraghan, a Malayali social activist intervenes in the impending crime with a crowd, intent on exposing the mafia; Govind and Andal slip away with the idol and a truck. 

Andal urges Govind to return to Chidambaram and in a scuffle that ensues between them, the truck hits the vehicle of an extended Muslim family; they rescue the family whose eldest son Khalifulla is gigantic. After Khalifulla's mother faints, they rush her to a hospital where Govind procures a chiller icebox to store the idol; Avatar Singh visits the same hospital to treat his throat cancer and stores his medicines in a similar box, prompting the boxes to get switched in the elevator. Fletcher spots Andal in the hospital and takes her and Khalifulla's family hostage, intimidating Govind to fetch the vial. After reaching Khalifulla's home, Govind ascertains that the boxes are swapped; the police surround the residence and requests them to surrender but Fletcher evades with Govind, Andal and Khalifulla's brother to Avatar's concert, where amidst a clash between Fletcher and Govind for the idol, Avatar is shot in his throat while trying to assist Govind. Outraged Ranjita, Avatar's wife, fights Fletcher for wounding her husband while Andal escapes with the idol and Govind chases her. Govind and Andal, while being hunted by Fletcher, reach a construction site and the grappling causes the vial to slip out of the idol. Govind conceals the vial, handovers the idol to an unaware Fletcher and takes off with Andal, who is disappointed with Govind for giving away the idol. 

Next day, on 26 December 2004, Govind intends to immerse the virus into the sea (which obviously consists of salt) to destroy it; Fletcher, nevertheless, combats him again, only to be desisted by Narahazi, who seeks apology from Govind for mistaking him to be Yukha's murderer. Subsequently, Balram arrives in his helicopter and threatens Fletcher to surrender. Caught between the duo, Fletcher swallows the virus and succumbs to its deadly communicable effects while the others stare helplessly. A tsunami washes Fletcher away and generates considerable destruction while simultaneously ceasing the impact of the virus, which had the prospects of destroying the entire state. Govind, Andal, Narahazi and Balram survive the disaster while Vincent, who was invited to negotiate with Sundaram's brother-in-law Raghavendra, succumbs to the catastrophe in the process of rescuing Raghavendra and his wife Meenakshi's kids. As the disarray comes to an end ultimately, Krishnaveni mistakes Vincent for his long-lost son (who had died 50 years ago) and mourns while Khalifulla and his kin, who were gathered in a Mosque by Balram for investigation, get through the calamity and Narahazi immerses Yukha's ashes in the sea. Avatar's cancerous growth is taken away due to Fletcher's shot, rescuing him from death. Andal, meanwhile, insists that God initiated the tsunami to cease the virus from causing destruction while Govind disagrees, stating that it was not fair to kill thousands to protect millions. They, however, unite and profess their feelings for each other while Nambi's remains, shackled to the idol of Vishnu, are on the banks (due to the tsunami). 

Currently, following Govind's speech in the stadium, George W. Bush takes over.

