15-year-old David Rice discovers he can teleport, or “jump”, after he falls through thin ice on the Huron River. He uses the ability to escape his father's abusive household and moves to NYC where he robs banks by teleporting into their vaults. 

Eight years later, David lives luxuriously in a penthouse. He spends his days jumping around to various exotic sites including surfing in Tahiti, lunching on top of the Sphinx’s head, and picking up a woman in a London pub.

One day David is confronted by Roland, a leader of the Paladins or Jumper hunters who believe Jumpers are abominations. Despite Roland using specialized weapons which disrupt a Jumper’s teleportation abilities, David 
still escapes to his hometown in Ann Arbor. There, he finds his high school crush Millie and also runs into his former high school bully Mark. They fight and David jumps him into a bank vault he had robbed years earlier.

Meanwhile David charms Millie into traveling spontaneously to Rome. He trespasses at the Colosseum when the guards turn them away, and while she is still outside the gate he is attacked by a team of Paladins. 

Griffin, another experienced Jumper, follows David as they ran into each other in London. Being a Paladin hunter, he quickly explains who and what they are and then leaves. David accidentally chases Griffin through his “jump scar” or wormhole, an event horizon created by the Jumper that they can pass through, ending up at his lair in the middle of a desert. 

David quickly returns to Rome where he’s arrested. After eight hours of interrogation, his mother Mary suddenly appears, leaves him the handcuff keys to escape before the Paladins can kill him. He quickly does so, escorts Millie to the airport, putting her on a flight back to America and then returns to Griffin’s.

David follows Griffin to Tokyo, eventually convincing him to partner up to kill Roland and save Millie. They jump to the US airport hoping to catch Millie upon arrival, but she has already gone home. 

David jumps to her apartment and shows her his powers before the Paladins attack. He quickly jumps her away to Griffin’s lair, enraging him. He explains the Paladins' technology can keep a jumper’s jump scar open and also pass through it. Roland and his team then suddenly appear at Griffin’s and fight them. Roland pins David with electrical webbing to the wall and nearly kills him before Griffin blasts a flamethrower. 

Griffin jumps to Millie’s apartment and brings back the machine that keeps the scar open. However, before the scar closes a Paladin cable pulls Millie back into her apartment. David wants to rescue her while Griffin refuses to help, saying losing friends and family to the Paladins is simply a part of Jumper life. He then preps a bomb to deliver to Millie’s apartment and hopefully kill Roland and the rest of his team.

David, not wanting to endanger Millie, steals the bomb and Griffin pursues. They engage in a lengthy battle through multiple jump sites on top of mountains, at landmarks, and finally at a Chechen battlefield where David manages to trap Griffin in tangled high-tension wires. 

Returning to Millie’s apartment to confront the Paladins, they immediately trap David in their high voltage cabling. Wanting to rescue Millie, he attempts to jump her entire apartment, a feat no Jumper had succeeded at until that point. David successfully jumps the apartment with Millie and the Paladins into the Huron River where he fell through the ice as a teenager. 

David then jumps himself, Millie, and Roland to the library, though the successive jumps render him unconscious. Millie revives him and he jumps Roland to an isolated cave above the Colorado River in the Grand Canyon, reminding him that he is different from the other jumpers as he did not kill him when he had the chance.

Later, David tracks down his mother, who is also a Paladin and has worked from the inside to protect him by hiding his information from her colleagues. He accepts that they are on opposite sides, and bids farewell to her on good terms, then jumps away with Millie to a warmer destination.

