An unknown entity, named "The Centre," tells its story about how it was born from the Earth itself and has witnessed the evolution and extinction of the dinosaurs, and mankind's evolution. Due to man's capacity for war and violence, the Centre has concluded that they must be eradicated.

At the end of the Korean War, United States Air Force pilot Hal Jordan and his wingman, Kyle "Ace" Morgan, are attacked by enemy pilots but survive. In Gotham, J'onn J'onzz – the last survivor of the Green Martian race – is teleported to Earth; unable to return, J'onn disguises himself. In Las Vegas, Iris West is on the telephone with her fiancé Barry Allen – also known as the Flash – at a casino when Captain Cold arrives to commit robbery; he races from Central City to confront Cold. Flash finds the five bombs hidden by Cold and captures him, before Cold is possessed by an entity.

Two years later J'onn (as John Jones) is a detective with the Gotham City Police Department, investigating a doomsday cult that worships the "Centre" and has kidnapped a child for a sacrificial ritual. J'onn and his partner Slam Bradley join Batman in battling the cult, but is incapacitated by a fire. The cult leader is possessed by the entity, and warns of impending judgement. Hal is training under Col. Rick Flag at Ferris Aircraft for a U.S. government project to build a spacecraft for travel to Mars. Special agent King Faraday oversees the project.

Batman suggests to J'onn that they work together in investigating the cult. After being attacked and nearly subdued by the US government, a disillusioned Flash announces his retirement. J'onn interrogates former Ferris employee Harry Leiter, apprehended for murder while under The Centre's influence, who tells them about the launch to Mars.  When Faraday arrives, J'onn briefly reads his mind and learns Leiter is telling the truth. Seeing the jubilant albeit contemptuous response to the Flash's retirement, J'onn gives his research to Batman and plans to return to Mars on the rocket. J'onn and Faraday fight on the launchpad; the rocket is damaged and malfunctions after leaving Earth's atmosphere. Hal wants to attempt a landing but Flag reveals weapons of mass destruction are on board, intended to destroy all life on Mars. Hal is ejected from the cockpit and saved by Superman; Flag detonates the rocket as J'onn is held prisoner.

On Paradise Island, Wonder Woman is training with Mala when the Amazons are attacked by The Centre. As a result of Flag's rocket explosion, a fatally wounded Abin Sur crash-lands on Earth, gives his ring to Hal and tells him about the Centre. Meanwhile, Superman and Batman review J'onn's research. Wonder Woman's invisible jet crashes at Cape Canaveral and she warns Superman that The Centre is coming. J'onn decides to help save Earth after his hope for humanity is renewed. The Centre, a massive flying island guarded by an army of mutant dinosaurs, begins its attack on America.  The Flash, Green Arrow, Adam Strange, the Challengers of the Unknown, and the Blackhawks join forces with the US forces to defend the Cape. Superman reconnoiters the Centre but is seemingly killed. Moved by his efforts, the heroes plan a frontal assault to provide cover for Hal and Ace while they fly a bombing mission into the creature.  At the same time the Flash, equipped with Ray Palmer's reduction ray, will crisscross the island, hoping to destabilize the island's atomic structure.

The aerial assault is nearly outmatched, and as dinosaurs ambush Faraday's ground forces, the Centre's psychic force briefly overwhelms J'onn. Faraday is captured by a dinosaur and both perish after Faraday sets off hand grenades. Hal and Ace shoot their way into The Centre's core but a hallucinogenic attack disorients them. Hal's ring relays instructions from the Guardians of the Universe on its use. Ace detonates his payload as Hal rescues him. The Flash races across the ocean, leaps onto The Centre's surface and covers it on foot, shrinking the island. Hal envelops the island in energy, towing it into space where it explodes. As the team celebrates their victory a glowing light emerges from the water and Aquaman emerges from a submarine carrying Superman.

The world celebrates the Centre's defeat with a ceremony. The film ends with a montage of various heroes and villains, including the birth of the Justice League set to the titular John F. Kennedy speech.

