A widowed merchant is forced to move to the countryside after going bankrupt, with his six children. His youngest daughter, Belle is the only one happy with the change. When one of the merchant's ships is found, the merchant prepares to return to reclaim his assets. While his two older spoiled daughters give him a long list of expensive things to bring back for them, Belle asks only for a rose. The merchant arrives and learns that the ship and its cargo have been taken to settle his debts. On the way home, he gets lost and stumbles upon the castle of the Beast, where all of his needs are magically met, including food, the items his daughters had asked him for and his injured horse, cured. He departs and picks a rose in the garden for Belle. He is confronted by the Beast, who is angry that he stole despite the Beast's help. As punishment, the Beast demands that the merchant return after saying goodbye to his children. After learning of her father's fate, Belle, feeling responsible, takes his place.

At the castle, Belle is given permission to roam the grounds, but must have dinner with the Beast every evening. She has a dream, revealing the prince's past; he enjoys hunting, but often ignores the Princess who loves him but is lonely. The prince is after an elusive golden deer and when the princess asks him to stop hunting it, he promises to do so if she will give him a son. At dinner, the Beast attempts to charm her, only to be rejected, which angers him. He later apologizes for his behavior. Belle says she will dance with him if she is allowed to see her family one last time. The Beast asks for Belle's love but she demands to see her family first. When he refuses, she rejects him once again. That night, she witnesses the Beast prey upon a hog. Shocked, she attempts to escape only for the Beast to catch up on the frozen lake. As Belle is pinned, the Beast attempts to kiss her when the ice beneath her breaks. He saves her and brings her back to the castle. He agrees to let her return home, giving her a small vial of healing water. He states that if she does not return to him in one day, he will die.

Belle goes home, where her father is bedridden and dying. Her eldest brother, Maxime finds a jewel on her clothing. Figuring that the castle may contain further treasures, he wants to get it to settle his debt to gangster Perducas. He leads Perducas and his gang to the castle. Belle has another dream about how the prince broke his promise to the princess and killed the golden deer. While dying, the deer transformed into the princess, revealing she was the Nymph of the Forest who became human because she wanted to experience love. Her father, the God of the Forest, transformed the prince into a beast as punishment, proclaiming that only the true love of a woman would break the Beast's curse. Belle gives her father the vial of water, healing him. She goes to the castle with her younger brother Tristan, arriving just as the Beast is about to kill the invaders. He stops when she begs for mercy. Perducas stabs the Beast, mortally wounding him. Suddenly, vines sprout about the castle. Perducas is killed by the vines and turned into a human tree. Belle and her brothers place the Beast into the healing pool of water. Dying, the Beast asks whether Belle could ever love him, and she counters that she already does. The Beast transforms back into his human form.

The story is being told by Belle to her two young children. They are living in the same countryside house, with Belle's father, who is now a flower merchant. Belle goes outside to greet her husband, the prince, and the two embrace.

