In the future, humanity is preparing to launch an attack on the homeworld of an alien race, called the Formics, that had attacked Earth and killed millions. The Formic invasion was stopped by Mazer Rackham, who crashed his fighter plane into the Formic queenship at the apparent cost of his life. Over the course of 50 years, gifted children are trained by the International Fleet to become commanders of a new fleet for this counterattack.

Cadet Andrew "Ender" Wiggin draws the attention of Colonel Hyrum Graff and Major Gwen Anderson because of his aptitude in simulated space combat and is recruited into Battle School.

Graff brings Ender to Battle School and places Ender with other cadets his age, but treats him as extraordinary, thereby subjecting him to being ostracized by the others. The cadets are placed in squads and perform training games in a zero-gravity "Battle Room". Ender quickly adapts to the games, devising new strategies older students have not yet seen.

Graff reassigns Ender to Salamander Army, led by Commander Bonzo Madrid. Bonzo, believing that Ender is inept and a liability, prevents him from training with the rest of the squad. Another cadet, Petra Arkanian, takes Ender under her wing and trains him privately.  In the next match, Bonzo benches Ender while the rest of the Salamander Army fights another team. However, seeing the team losing and Petra in trouble, Ender comes to her aid and helps Salamander Army win.

Meanwhile, Ender plays a computerized "mind game" set in a fantasy world, which presents difficult choices to the player. In one situation, Ender creates an outside the box solution to overcome a seemingly unsolvable problem. Later, he encounters a Formic in the game, and then simulated images involving his siblings. These are noted as unusual additions to the game, which is seemingly altered by Ender's interaction with the computer.

Graff promotes Ender to lead his own squad, which is made up of students who have gained Ender's trust. They are put in increasingly difficult battles. In a surprise match against two other teams, including Bonzo's Salamander Army, Ender devises a novel strategy of sacrificing part of his team to achieve a goal, impressing Graff.

Bonzo attacks Ender in the bathroom after the match, but Ender fights back. Bonzo falls during the struggle and suffers a head injury. Distraught, Ender quits Battle School, but Graff has Ender's sister  Valentine convince him to continue.

Graff takes Ender to humanity's forward base on a former Formic planet near their homeworld to meet with an elder Rackham.  Rackham explains that the Formics share a hive-mind mentality and how he exploited it to win the battle. Ender finds that his former squad members are also there to help him train in computerized simulations of large fleet combat; Rackham puts special emphasis on the fleet's Molecular Detachment (MD) Device that is capable of disintegrating matter.<ref group="note">In the film, the MD Device stands for Molecular Detachment Device, whereas in the book, it has also been called the Molecular Disruption Device. In both instances, they are nicknamed the Little Doctor. {{cite book |url = https://archive.org/details/authorizedenderc0000blac |url-access = registration | title=The Authorized Ender Companion |last=Black |first=Jake |year=2009 |publisher=Tor Books |isbn=978-0-7653-2063-6 |access-date=2012-02-08 | page = [https://archive.org/details/authorizedenderc0000blac/page/368 368]}}</ref> Ender's training is rigorous, and Anderson expresses concern over this, but Graff notes they have run out of time to replace Ender.

Ender's final test is monitored by several fleet commanders. As the simulation starts, Ender finds his fleet over the Formic homeworld, vastly outnumbered. He orders most of his fleet to sacrifice themselves to protect the MD long enough to fire on the homeworld. The resulting chain reaction burns over the surface of the planet, killing the entire population. The simulation ends, and Ender believes the test is over. The commanders restart the video screens, showing that Ender's fleet actually participated in live missions and destroyed the Formic homeworld.  Despite Graff congratulating him, Ender realizes that he became just like his cruel older brother Peter due to destroying the planet. Ender storms off only to be tranquilized by staff.

While asleep, Ender is awoken by the Formic Queen and is directed to a Formic structure nearby as being similar to the ruined castle from the game. The Queen acknowledges Ender's role in the genocide and moves to kill him, but when Ender shows remorse, she spares his life. The Queen gives Ender a Queen egg that she has been protecting.

With the war ended, Ender is promoted to admiral, given a small ship, and left to his own devices. In a letter to Valentine, he confides that he is going into deep space, determined to start a new Formic colony with the Queen egg.

