Following their successful heist in Brazil,{{efn|As depicted in ''Fast Five'' (2011)}} Dominic Toretto and his professional criminal crew have fled around the world and are living peacefully: Dom lives with Elena Neves; his sister Mia lives with Brian O'Conner and their son, Jack; Gisele Yashar and Han Lue are together; and Roman Pearce and Tej Parker live in luxury. Meanwhile, DSS agents Luke Hobbs and Riley Hicks investigate the destruction of a Russian military convoy by a crew of mercenaries led by former British SAS major Owen Shaw. Hobbs locates Dom and convinces him to help capture Owen by showing him a photo of his supposedly murdered wife, Letty Ortiz, who is working with Owen and his crew. Dom and his crew accept the mission in exchange for amnesty.

In London, Owen's hideout is found, but is revealed to be a distraction, while Owen's crew performs a heist at an Interpol building. Owen flees in a custom car, detonating his hideout and disabling most of the police, leaving Dom, Brian, Tej, Roman, Han, Gisele, Hobbs, and Riley to pursue him. Letty arrives to help Owen, shooting Dom without hesitation before escaping. Back at their headquarters, Hobbs tells Dom's crew that Owen is stealing components to create a "Nightshade" device that can shut down all power, intending to sell it to the highest bidder. Meanwhile, Owen's investigation into Dom's crew reveals Letty's relationship with Dom, but she is revealed to be suffering from amnesia. Dom's crew learns that Owen is connected to Arturo Braga, a drug lord whom Dom and Brian imprisoned.{{efn|As depicted in ''Fast & Furious'' (2009)}} While Tej purchases several cars from an auction for the mission, Brian returns to Los Angeles as a prisoner to question Braga, who reveals that Owen helped him build his drug cartel and Letty survived the explosion; Owen took her in after discovering her amnesia.

With FBI help, Brian is released from prison, regrouping with the team in London. Dom challenges Letty in a street racing competition; afterward, he returns her cross necklace, but she chooses to remain with Owen. After Letty leaves, Owen arrives and offers Dom a chance to walk away, threatening to hurt his family, but Dom refuses. Tej tracks Owen's next attack on a Spanish NATO base. Owen's crew assaults a highway military convoy carrying a computer chip to complete "Nightshade". Dom's crew interferes while Owen, accompanied by Letty, commandeers a tank. Brian and Roman flip the tank before it causes further damage, resulting in Letty being thrown from the vehicle as Dom saves her. Owen and his crew are captured, but reveal Mia has been kidnapped by Owen's henchmen Vegh and Klaus. Hobbs is forced to release Owen, and Riley, who is revealed to be Owen's covert accomplice, leaves with him; Letty chooses to remain with Dom.

Owen's group boards a moving Antonov An-124 as Dom's crew gives chase. Dom, Letty, and Brian board the craft; Brian rescues Mia and escapes. The plane attempts to take off but is held down by excess weight as the rest of the team tether the plane to their vehicles. Gisele seemingly sacrifices herself to save Han from Owen's henchman, Adolfson. Letty kills Riley and escapes with Hobbs to safety, but Dom pursues Owen and the computer chip. As the plane crashes, Owen is thrown from it and seriously injured, and Dom drives a Charger out of the exploding plane. Dom reunites with his crew and gives the chip to Hobbs to secure their pardons. Dom and the others return to his old family home in Los Angeles. Hobbs and Elena, now working together, arrive to confirm the crew's freedom; Elena accepts that Dom loves Letty as the group prepares to say grace.

In a mid-credits scene, Han is involved in a car chase in Tokyo when he is suddenly broadsided by an oncoming Mercedes-Benz W140.{{efn|As depicted in ''The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift'' (2006)}} The driver walks away after leaving Letty's cross necklace by the crash, and calls Dom, saying: "You don't know me, but you're about to", as Han's car explodes.


