In 2077 repair technician Jack and communications officer Victoria appear to be the last people left on Earth. In 2017, scavenger aliens destroyed the Moon and invaded Earth; although humans won the war, Earth was left uninhabitable. Jack repairs combat drones that hunt the remaining scavengers and guard the hydrothermal platforms that convert seawater into fusion energy. The work is reported to Sally, the commander aboard the "Tet", a space station orbiting Earth once a day. Within two weeks, the group will be departing for Saturn's moon, Titan, to join colonists there. Though Jack and Victoria's memories have been wiped, Jack dreams of a pre-war life with an unknown woman.

Jack escapes a scavenger trap while searching for a disabled drone inside the New York Public Library's ruins; meanwhile, a platform is destroyed. Jack discovers that the scavengers are radioing coordinates from the Empire State Building's antenna and sending the transmission into space. He visits an area that sustains vegetation and has a lake with fish and potable water. A lakeside cabin he built is filled with mementos of Earth's past.

An object falls from the sky to the coordinates. Jack finds five humans in sleep pods there, including the woman from his dreams. A drone destroys four pods but Jack prevents it killing the woman and takes her to his and Victoria's aerial base. The woman, Julia, is a NASA astronaut who has been in suspended animation aboard the Odyssey spaceship since 2017.

Jack and Julia retrieve the Odyssey's flight recorder, but are captured by scavengers and taken to the Raven Rock Mountain Complex. The leader, Malcolm, reveals that the scavengers are disguised human survivors hiding from the drones. He frees Jack and Julia into the desert area that Jack knows as the deadly Radiation Zone so that they can discover the truth for themselves. Julia helps Jack recall that she is his wife.

Victoria sends a jet to retrieve Jack and Julia. Seeing their closeness, she reports to Sally that she and Jack are no longer "an effective team". Sally dispatches a drone that kills Victoria. Jack and Julia flee in the jet and destroy the drones chasing them but they crash in the desert, where another clone of Jack arrives to fix disabled drones. Jack incapacitates him, but Julia is shot during their fight. Jack impersonates the clone to return to its base for medical supplies where he encounters a clone of Victoria. Jack takes Julia to his cabin where she recovers.

Back at Raven Rock, Malcolm tells them the Tet is an alien artificial intelligence ship that is extracting Earth's resources. The Tet destroyed the Moon, causing catastrophic earthquakes and tsunamis, then invaded with thousands of Jack clones. The escape to Titan and humanity's victory are fictional. The survivors brought down the Odyssey spaceship for its nuclear reactor, with which to craft a bomb. Jack reprograms a captured drone to deliver the bomb to the Tet, but other drones attack the base destroying the captured drone and gravely injuring Malcolm. Jack and Julia volunteer to manually deliver the bomb to the Tet.

En route to the Tet, Jack learns that he was cloned from the NASA mission commander, Jack Harper, who was on a mission to explore Titan. Victoria was his co-pilot, his wife Julia a crew member, and Sally the Earth mission director. After the mission was interrupted by the Tet's arrival, Jack separated the control capsule to save the crew members in their stasis pods. He and Victoria were captured and cloned.

Jack enters the Tet and offers Julia to the Tet's projection of Sally, but it is Malcolm who emerges from the pod. The two detonate the bomb, destroying the Tet. Julia awakens in her pod by the cabin.

Three years after the explosion seen in the sky, Julia and her and Jack's daughter are living at the cabin. Survivors  arrive with the help of the clone that Jack had subdued in the desert. This clone has also recovered the original Jack's memories.

