Former U.S. Army Ranger, Mike Banning, is a Secret Service Agent and detail leader in the Presidential Protection Division, maintaining a personal, friendly relationship with President Benjamin Asher, First Lady Margaret, and their son Connor. On a snowy Christmas drive from Camp David, the Presidential Limo transporting the First Family spins out of control on an icy bridge After a tree branch hits the leading vehicle. Banning pulls Asher from the vehicle, but the limo plummets to the frozen river killing Margaret and 2 other agents.

Eighteen months later, Banning works at the Treasury Department, having been removed from the presidential detail. During Asher's meeting with South Korean Prime Minister Lee Tae-Woo at the White House, the Koreans for United Freedom (KUF), a North Korean terrorist group led by Kang Yeonsak, mounts a full-scale assault to capture the building and kill most of the White House security force. Aided by ex-Secret Service Agent-turned-private security contractor Dave Forbes, they hold Asher and several top officials hostage in the PEOC, executing Lee on live video. Before being killed, Agent Roma alerts Secret Service Director Lynne Jacobs.

Banning joins the White House's defenders during KUF's initial assault. He falls back into the White House, disabling internal surveillance, and using Asher's satellite earphone to contact Jacobs and Speaker of the House Allan Trumbull, now acting president, in the Pentagon's emergency briefing room.

Kang uses Asher's hostage status to demand Trumbull to withdraw U.S. Forces from the Korean Peninsula. He also seeks to detonate the American nuclear arsenal to turn North America into an irradiated wasteland, as revenge for the death of his parents. To do this, he needs the access codes to the Cerberus nuclear arsenal system, held only by Asher, Secretary of Defense Ruth McMillan, and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs Admiral Joseph Hoenig, all of whom are inside the PEOC. Asher orders McMillan and Hoenig to reveal their codes to save their lives, certain that he will not give up his own code.

After finding Connor hiding in the building's walls and sneaking him to safety, preventing Kang from using him to force Asher to reveal his Cerberus code, Banning kills many commandos, including Forbes. Army Chief of Staff General Edward Clegg convinces Trumbull to order an aerial assault on the White House. The KUF discovers and destroys the assault force using the advanced Hydra 6 anti-aircraft system. Kang retaliates by executing Vice President Charlie Rodriguez.

Banning disables Kang's communications and forces him into bringing several of his men into the open, killing more of them when they attempt to execute McMillan in front of the media and before they can retreat back to the bunker. With their numbers dwindling rapidly, Kang fakes his and Asher's death by sacrificing several of his commandos and the remaining hostages in a helicopter explosion. 

Banning sees through the ruse and proceeds to enter the bunker. With two codes already in hand, Kang eventually cracks Asher's code and activates Cerberus. Banning ambushes and kills Kang's remaining men when they attempt to escape with Asher, and Banning eventually stabs Kang in the head, killing him. Informed by Asher about Cerberus, Banning deactivates it just in time with the assistance of Trumbull and his staff. Banning escorts Asher out of the White House. Afterward, Banning is reinstated to the head of the president's security detail as Asher speaks about the aftermath of the attack, ensuring the public that America will rebuild stronger than before.

