The night before Easter, a lowlife named Remington dons an Easter Bunny mask, and robs a convenience store with a shotgun, shooting the clerk in the mouth. Remington is then revealed to have charmed his way into the life of widow Mindy Peters, a nurse who lives with her cerebral palsy-afflicted son Nicholas, who Remington torments when Mindy is not around. While taking out the garbage, Nicholas befriends a disfigured vagrant who gives him a rabbit he claims is an Easter Bunny. Nicholas decides to keep the rabbit a secret, but it is discovered by Remington, who threatens to kill it if Nicholas says anything bad about him to Mindy.

On Easter, Mindy has to work a double shift, so she leaves Nicholas alone with Remington, after the latter kicks out some unscrupulous home renovators. As soon as Mindy leaves, Remington assaults Nicholas, and calls over a physically disabled and pedophilic acquaintance named Ray, who he "rents" Nicholas to in exchange for money and drugs. Remington goes to get prostitutes, and while Ray searches for Nicholas, someone wearing Remington's discarded Easter Bunny mask murders him with a knife, and a drill. As the killer disposes of Ray's body, the renovators return to pick up their tools, and ransack the house. The killer disembowels one with a circular saw, and wounds another with a hammer as the remaining one is approached by the vagrant.

Remington arrives with a pair of prostitutes named Candy and Brooke, and they are attacked by the injured and disoriented handyman (who Remington kills with a flashlight) and the killer. Candy is impaled through the mouth with a broomstick handle, Brooke is stabbed with a piece of glass, and Remington has his throat slit. The killer is shown to be Mindy, who taunts Remington as he dies, stating, "I hid, and watched, and I saw how you treated Nicholas. I heard every venomous word that spewed through your deceitful mouth. Until I ended it. Just like his father". A flashback then shows that exactly a decade prior, Mindy set Donald, her abusive husband, on fire because he regarded Nicholas as a burdensome freak.

The homeless man enters, and is revealed to be Donald, who asks for forgiveness, and acceptance back into the family, unveiling to Mindy and Nicholas the head of a renovator he had murdered to help Mindy. The three embrace, and the film ends with Donald saying, "Now, what do you say we clean up these dead bodies, and start a family, huh?"

