The film takes place in a 1950s-esque alternate universe where radiation from space has turned the dead into zombies. This resulted in the "Zombie Wars", where humanity battled zombies to prevent a zombie apocalypse, with humanity the ultimate victor. The radiation still plagues humanity, as all those who die turn into the undead, unless the dead body is disposed of by decapitation or cremation. In order to continue living normal lives, communities are fenced with the help of a governing corporation named ZomCon. ZomCon provides collars with accompanying remote controls to control the zombies' hunger for flesh so as to use them as menial task servants.

In the town of Willard, housewife Helen Robinson (Carrie-Anne Moss) buys a zombie (Billy Connolly) in spite of her husband Bill's (Dylan Baker) zombie phobia, as Bill had to kill his own father who had become a zombie and tried to eat him. Their son, Timmy (K'Sun Ray), befriends the zombie, naming him "Fido" (little is revealed of his "pre-zombie" life, except that he likely died of myocardial infarction as evidenced by the chest incision). One day, Fido's collar malfunctions and he accidentally kills their next door neighbor, who turns into a zombie. Timmy "kills" the zombified neighbor later, but not before she kills and infects another person, causing a small zombie outbreak. ZomCon security forces quell the situation and then investigate what caused the outbreak.

When a pair of local bullies get caught shooting a ZomCon officer, they are suspected of shooting the missing neighbor, but they point the blame on Fido who hurt them when they tried bullying Timmy. The bullies later capture Fido and Timmy, who are out on a walk in the country. Fido escapes and, in a parody of Lassie, is sent by Timmy to go home and find Helen. Helen comes and rescues Timmy from the bullies (who, through their own misadventure and Fido's hunger for human flesh, are now zombies), and they try to forget about the whole thing. Several days later, the neighbor's body is 'uncovered' and the murder is traced back to Fido, who is taken away to ZomCon where the family is told he will be destroyed. Timmy learns through Cindy Bottoms (Alexia Fast), daughter of Jonathan Bottoms (Henry Czerny), ZomCon's zealous security chief, that Fido has been put to work in a factory at ZomCon. Timmy sets out to rescue him with the help of Mr. Theopolis (Tim Blake Nelson), a previous ZomCon employee who was forced to leave when it was discovered he was suspected of fraternizing with his attractive female zombie.

Meanwhile, Timmy locates Fido, but is captured by Mr. Bottoms, who attempts to throw Timmy into the zombie-infested "wild zone" that exists outside of the fenced communities as punishment for his becoming attached to a zombie. Bill comes to the rescue and is killed in a struggle with Mr. Bottoms, who in turn is killed by Fido. Timmy is set free and the news media states that the ZomCon security breach was the fault of rednecks who ventured out into the wild zone to hunt zombies for fun. Helen gives Bill the headless funeral he always wanted in order to prevent his zombification. The film ends with Fido as a surrogate father to Timmy, Helen, and Helen's newborn baby. They, along with a few neighbors, happily enjoy their new domestic lives together, including the zombified Jonathan Bottoms who is now under the control of his daughter.

