In 2005, high school student Wendy Christensen visits an amusement park in Pennsylvania with her boyfriend Jason Wise, her best friend Carrie Dreyer, Carrie's boyfriend Kevin Fischer, and their classmates to celebrate their graduation.

As they board the Devil's Flight roller coaster, Wendy has a premonition that a camcorder, dropped by one of her friends during the ride, will land on the ride's tracks and will be run over by the train cars, causing the hydraulics securing the restraints and train cars to fail during the ride, killing everyone on board. She convinces nine people including Kevin, best friends Ashley Freund and Ashlyn Halperin, alumnus Frankie Cheeks, athlete Lewis Romero, and goth couple Ian McKinley and Erin Ulmer, not to ride the roller coaster, but fails to save Jason and Carrie, who are among the remaining passengers killed in the derailment.

Weeks later, Kevin tells Wendy about the explosion of Flight 180 and the survivors' subsequent deaths, believing they may be in a similar situation. At a tanning salon, Ashley and Ashlyn are burnt alive in malfunctioning tanning beds. Now convinced that Death is stalking them, Wendy and Kevin set out to save the remaining survivors using omens hidden in photographs of the survivors that Wendy took on the night of the crash.

When Wendy and Kevin pull into a drive-thru restaurant and observe Frankie's photo, a runaway semi-trailer truck forces them to escape Kevin's truck before it collides. The collision causes the truck's engine to burst out of the hood and grille, killing Frankie, who was in the car in front of them, as the fan sliced his skull. The next day, Wendy and Kevin fail to save Lewis, whose head is crushed by two weights from a weight machine at the school gym. They find Ian and Erin working at a hardware store, where a chain reaction from a runaway forklift allows Wendy to save Ian from his death. However, Death skips to Erin, who falls on a nail gun that shoots repeatedly through her head, killing her.

While identifying the last two survivors from the photographs, whose faces are obscured, Wendy realizes that they are her sister Julie and one of her friends, prompting Wendy and Kevin to rush to the local tricentennial fair to save them. Kevin saves Julie from being impaled on a harrow, but an airborne flagpole fatally impales Julie's friend Perry Malinowski moments later. After Wendy saves Kevin from an exploding propane canister, the trio is confronted by a grief-stricken Ian, who blames Wendy for Erin's death, until an unstable cart of firework cannons launches into a cherry picker that falls and crushes him.

Five months later, Wendy experiences more omens while riding on a subway train with her roommate Laura and her friend Sean. As Wendy is about to disembark, she suddenly reunites with Julie and Kevin, who had also boarded the train. Wendy receives another premonition that the train will crash, killing everyone on board. Panicked, the remaining survivors attempt to stop the train as it is about to crash, leaving their fates unknown.

