On July 4, 2005, in the fictional town of Broken Ridge, Colorado, Amber Williams, her boyfriend Colby Patterson and their friends Zoe, Roger, and PJ stage a prank at the town carnival where Roger impersonates the "Fisherman" killer. Afterward, everyone sees PJ's body impaled on a tractor smokestack instead of mattresses that were supposed to break his fall. The public believes the Fisherman is behind it, and the friends burn the evidence and make a pact to keep it secret.

One year later in 2006, Amber returns to town to discover that Colby never left to pursue his scholarship. She goes up to the mountains where she encounters one of the officers who witnessed the accident, Deputy Haffner. Later that night, Amber awakens to 50 text messages reading "I know what you did last summer." She drives to Zoe's shack where Zoe allows Amber to sleep for the night. The next day they find Roger and Colby, but they angrily dismiss them when told about the messages. Amber is attacked on a ski-lift by someone wielding the hook.

A drunken Roger contemplates suicide with the hook from the prank. When he investigates a noise, he is attacked and killed by the Fisherman. Colby is also attacked while swimming. They go to warn Roger and find him dead along with a suicide note and the hook. Deputy Haffner shows up and gets their statements. Afterward, they return to Amber's house to find pictures of them from the high school yearbook sliced up and stuck to the wall reading "SOON". They all stay at Zoe's place and find Lance, PJ's cousin, outside. He shows them a message engraved on his motorbike.

The night of Zoe's concert, after her performance, she, Amber, and Lance are attacked by the Fisherman. Zoe is stabbed and thrown over a balcony to her death. P.J's dad, the sheriff, comes in, only to be killed as well. The Fisherman then attacks Colby in a kitchen and hooks him in the mouth, killing him. Outside, Amber and Lance run into Deputy Haffner, who reveals that Roger told him about the accident. The Fisherman then advances towards Haffner and impales him on a forklift.

Amber and Lance get into a car and run the fisherman down. He gets up and is revealed to be the undead Ben Willis, the man who committed the original murders 8 years ago. Willis attacks them but is cut with a hook by Amber and disappears. Amber and Lance go to face Willis, deducing that the hook will hurt him. They are chased into a warehouse. Amber then fights Willis and eventually stabs him in the head, and pushes him into a snow blower driven by Lance, killing Willis.

A year later in 2007, Amber is driving across the desert when a tire blows out. She stops the car and loses reception. Willis appears behind her and the screen cuts to black as Amber's scream is cut off by the slicing sound of the hook, ending the film, leaving the viewers questioning that Willis has killed her.

