Three young American tourists, Alex (Josh Duhamel), his sister Bea (Olivia Wilde), and her friend Amy (Beau Garrett) are backpacking in Brazil. After a bus crash leaves all the passengers stranded, they are joined by two British men, Finn and Liam, and an Australian woman, Pru (Melissa George), who is fluent in Portuguese.

The group find a cabana bar where several other tourists are partying. After spending the day on the beach, they are served drugged drinks and pass out. The next morning, they awaken on the deserted beach, robbed of their luggage, money and travel documents. Looking for help in a nearby village, Kiko, a young local who speaks some English, volunteers to take them to his uncle's isolated house in the forest where they can wait for a ride.

En route to the house, Kiko shows the group a cave beneath a waterfall, but while diving into the water, he sustains a serious head injury. At the house, they find food, clothes, and a number of prescription drugs, as well as a drawer filled with other people’s passports. They manage to treat Kiko's wound and reluctantly decide to spend the night. They are awakened in the middle of the night by a helicopter bringing Zamora, a physician, and several associates and doctors, surrounded by armed henchmen. A woman who arrives advises them to flee but when the group try and fight them, they are beaten into submission. Kiko flees from the house.

A sedated Amy awakens tied to a makeshift operating room where Zamora begins to remove her organs, while he explains to Finn, who is also tied up, that organ theft for transplant from Brazilians by rich gringos is part of a pattern of exploitation of Brazilian "resources", and that it is time to "give back." Victims' usable organs are being harvested and sent to the People’s Hospital in Rio de Janeiro and used for the benefit of the poor. Amy dies on the operating table, after all her organs were removed.

Meanwhile, the rest of the group outside manage to break free from cages they have been contained in, and fight and kill one of Zamora’s associates, with the aid of Kiko who has returned to help them. While Bea and Pru flee into the jungle, Alex, Kiko and Liam attempt to raid the cabin. They successfully rescue Finn, but he is shot in the head while escaping. Alex flees, while Liam decides to stay behind to fight back, only to be shot and captured for his organs to be salvaged.

Alex and Kiko find Bea hiding near the river. The three head to the flooded cave where they find Pru. Diving and swimming to the cavern's secondary entrance, they find Zamora is also there, and he shoots at them in the water, killing Kiko and injuring Alex's hand. Alex, Bea and Pru are forced to backtrack into the cave; they become split up while stopping in pockets of air to breathe. Bea and the archer meet at the same spot, but Bea takes an arrow from the man, stabbing him in the neck and killing him. They all manage to escape the cave only to run into Zamora at the exit. Alex attacks and repeatedly hits him in the head with a rock, but is interrupted by one of Zamora's henchman who is armed with a rifle.

Zamora instructs him to kill the trio but, seeing them vulnerable and scared, and Zamora in agony, the man hesitates. Pru tries to convince the gunman to spare them, pointing out Zamora's poor treatment of him. Zamora calls the gunman a coward, and is then shot in the head by the gunman who turns and walks off. Soon after, the survivors, coming out of the jungle, meet local villagers who take them in.

Later, Alex, Bea, and Pru stand in line, waiting to board an airplane in silence while a couple of tourists behind them argue over going by bus. Alex turns and advises them to take the plane instead.

