Mall cop Harry Caine obsessively investigates the murder of his pregnant wife, Claire, who was killed alongside a DEA agent at his work. His co-workers support him but express concern when he becomes aggressive with customers. He is kept up at night by visions of his wife walking toward an empty house in his neighborhood. The police call him in and question him before showing him an extremely blurry photo of the man they claim is his wife's killer. 

While combing through mall security footage given to him by his co-worker, he witnesses her murder, and becomes convinced that the empty house contains answers. He sneaks in and finds only a couple of boxes from which he steals a roll of film. He has it developed at the mall and studies the pictures. He is shocked to realize that they were taken in a place he visited with Claire called Morristown, Montana. He drives there and checks into the hotel where he and Claire stayed, then visits the locations he spotted in the photos. This leads him to a diner, where he asks a waitress about one of the women in the pictures, claiming that they have a mutual friend. He is confronted by a police officer, who takes his information and asks why he is trying to find the woman. 

The cop notifies a fellow officer named Peter of Caine's presence, and Peter rushes home to check on the safety of his child. Concerned by his behavior, his wife (who turns out to be the woman from the photo) asks what is going on, but he tells her that Harry is just someone who was involved in an old case and asks her to take their kid to go to visit her sister. He then calls his bosses together and tells them that Harry Caine is in town. 

It is revealed that Peter is part of a secretive organization within the police force that assassinates corrupt officers across the United States. While on a mission to kill a corrupt DEA agent, Peter accidentally shot Claire. It has haunted him ever since, and causes him to break down in front of his superiors. They tell him that Caine needs to be killed, and offer to do it for him. He rejects their offer and says that he must do it himself. Caine receives a call from Peter, who claims to be able to help him find the woman in the picture. Peter lures him to another room in the hotel and questions him. Both on edge, they leave the room just as Harry realizes that Peter is his wife's killer. 

Peter shoots him in the side. Wracked with guilt, Peter hesitates before firing again, which allows him to run to the elevator, mirroring a vision he had earlier that day. He takes the elevator down, and has the opportunity to get off on a lower floor, but upon seeing his own blood, flies into a rage and returns to Peter's floor, stumbling out of the elevator into complete darkness. 

Flashes of red overtake the screen, and Harry wakes up on a hospital bed in a police station, confessing to Peter's murder. One of the officers taking his statement is called out of the room by the cop from the diner, who tells him something that visibly frightens him. He returns to the room and informs Harry that the police found no body or evidence of any kind, then tells him that he cannot change what has already happened, and needs to focus on the future. Harry breaks down crying. He is let go, and the cop from the diner drives him to a crossroads, providing him with a new car and all of his luggage. Harry dumps all of the photos and clues about his wife's murder on the side of the road and drives away.

During the end credits, a number of surveillance camera perspectives are shown, deviding the screen into six evenly placed rectangles. During the credits, some of them switch places, other times spots where a camera's vantage point was shown stays black. The camera or CCTV views are shown in the background during the entire end credit session, with two perspectives briefly showing the scene of the crime, as watched by Harry during the film. In the very last install of the movie, and with the disclaimer presented, only one camera perspective is shown in the top left corner of the screen. It is the actual killing of Harry's wife. Except, it is decisively different from the perspective shown in the movie. Here, the killing happens not accidentally, but after an obvious moment of situational evaluation by the killer.

