In New Orleans, an ex-employee perpetrates a mass shooting at a stock brokerage firm. Eleven people are killed and several wounded. Among the dead is Jacob Wood. Two years later, with attorney Wendell Rohr, Jacob's widow Celeste sues Vicksburg Firearms for the company's gross negligence that caused her husband's death. During jury selection, jury consultant Rankin Fitch, revealed to have ties with Vicksburg, and his team communicate background information on the jury pool through electronic surveillance to defense attorney Durwood Cable, who is in the courtroom.

Potential juror, Nick Easter attempts to be excused from jury duty. Judge Frederick Harkin refuses, claiming Nick is receiving a lesson in civic duty. Nick's congenial manner wins over his fellow jurors except Frank Herrera, a Marine veteran, who dislikes him.

Someone named Marlee calls Fitch and Rohr and makes an offer to deliver the desired verdict to the first bidder. Rohr dismisses the offer, assuming it to be Fitch's tactic to obtain a mistrial. Fitch wants proof that she can deliver, which she provides by asking if he "feels patriotic" and then having the jury pledge allegiance to the flag. By observing the jurors' behaviour through concealed cameras, Fitch identifies Nick as the influencer and orders his apartment searched, but finds nothing.

Marlee retaliates by getting one of Fitch's jurors bounced. Fitch then blackmails three jurors, leading Rikki Coleman to attempt suicide. He also sends his men to find a concealed storage device in Nick's apartment with key information, after which they burn it. When Nick shows the judge footage of Fitch's men breaking into his apartment, the jury is sequestered.

Rohr's key witness, a former Vicksburg employee, does not show up. After confronting Fitch, Rohr decides that he cannot win the case. He asks his firm's partners for $10&nbsp;million to pay Marlee. Fitch sends an operative, Janovich, to kidnap Marlee, who fights him off and raises the price to $15&nbsp;million. On principle, Rohr refuses to pay, electing to take his chances against Fitch while keeping his conscience clear. After the CEO of Vicksburg Firearms loses his temper under cross-examination and makes a bad impression on the jury, Fitch agrees to pay Marlee to be certain of the verdict.

Fitch's subordinate Doyle, who is investigating Nick, finds that Nick is actually Jeff Kerr, a law school drop-out. He then travels to Gardner, Indiana, where Jeff and his law school girlfriend Gabby (i.e., Marlee) both come from. Doyle quizzes Gabby's mother, who reveals that Gabby's sister died in a shooting years before when she was in high school. At the time, the town of Gardner sued the manufacturer of the guns used and lost; Fitch had helped the defense win the case. Nick and Marlee's offer is a set-up. Doyle calls Fitch to warn him but is too late as the money has already been paid.

After receiving confirmation of the payment, Nick asks the other jurors to review the facts, saying they owe it to Celeste Wood to deliberate. This causes Herrera to launch into a rant against the plaintiff, which undermines any support he had from the other jurors. The gun manufacturer is found liable, with the jury awarding $110&nbsp;million in general damages to Celeste Wood.

After the trial, Nick and Marlee confront Fitch with a receipt for the $15&nbsp;million bribe, which they will make public unless he retires. Fitch asks Nick how he got the jury to vote for the plaintiff; Nick replies that he did not, explaining that he stopped Fitch from stealing the trial merely by getting the jury to vote with their hearts. Nick and Marlee inform an indignant Fitch that the $15&nbsp;million "fee" will benefit the shooting victims in Gardner.

While on his way with Celeste and her son to a celebratory meal, Rohr sees Nick and Marlee watching children play. They exchange knowing looks, and Rohr smiles. He leaves as Marlee and Nick decide to return home to Gardner.

