Charlie Hinton is a market executive at a local food company. He and his wife Kim have just enrolled their son Ben into Chapman Academy, an over academic preschool overseen by the haughty Gwyneth Harridan. However, on the day they enrol him, Charlie and his best friend, Phil Ryerson, are laid off when the company shuts down their division due to the poor reception of their vegetable based breakfast cereals. Charlie breaks the news to Kim and Ben at dinner, but assures them he will find a new job. 

While Kim supports the family by returning to work as a lawyer, Charlie, after six weeks of job hunting and finding nothing, is forced to take Ben out of Chapman. Unable to find a satisfactory alternative, Charlie decides to open a daycare center in his home with the help of Phil, calling it "Daddy Day Care". Although local parents are suspicious of men working with kids, a few choose their service as it is more affordable and child-based.

Charlie and Phil open with a few children, struggling at first with chaos and some personal issues. Angered at losing children to the new competition, Harridan attempts to shut them down by notifying child services, and Charlie and Phil find themselves rectifying problems pointed out by Dan Kubitz, a director of child services, to ensure their daycare is suitable for children, including hiring their former colleague Marvin as an additional care provider. In time, they start to enjoy running Daddy Day Care as it grows in popularity, with Charlie delighted to see Ben making friends and enjoying himself. 

When Kubitz points out that the house cannot accommodate the number of children they now have, he suggests that they either remove two kids or find a permanent facility somewhere in town. Not willing to remove any of the children, Charlie chooses the latter option. Marvin tells them of a suitable vacant building, but they cannot afford it, so they decide to hold a fundraiser to earn the necessary capital. However, Harridan learns of the event and sabotages it with help from her hesitant assistant Jennifer. As a result, Charlie and Phil do not raise enough money to pay for the building. 

At the same time, the company offers Charlie and Phil their old jobs back at double their salaries, having decided to rehire them after acting on an earlier idea that Charlie had sarcastically suggested. Harridan also offers to take in their children for a more affordable price if Daddy Day Care shuts down. Charlie and Phil reluctantly accept the offer, leaving Marvin heartbroken and refusing to join them. Ben is also disappointed when Charlie tells him he has to go back to Chapman. The next day, Charlie questions his decision after he realizes the impact Daddy Day Care has had on Ben and the other children. Deciding that Ben is the most important thing to him, he quits, convincing Phil to join him and re-open Daddy Day Care. Informing Marvin of their plans, Charlie confronts Harridan during a student orientation and reveals to the parents in attendance how little she cares about their children. After mentioning how much Daddy Day Care changed and helped the children, Charlie declares that Daddy Day Care is reopened and convinces the parents to return. 

Six months later, the daycare manages to buy the building it needs to expand and prospers, with Charlie and Phil now successful, Jennifer now working for the center, and Marvin entering a relationship with one of the parents. With Chapman no more, Harridan is forced to work as a crossing guard, but confuses the car drivers nearby when a bee harasses her because of a daisy on her vest.

