Rock band No Vacancy performs at a nightclub three weeks before auditioning for the Battle of the Bands. Guitarist Dewey Finn creates on-stage antics, including a dive that abruptly ends the performance. The next morning, his roommate Ned Schneebly and Ned's domineering girlfriend, Patty Di Marco, inform Dewey he must either pay his overdue share of the rent or move out. At a rehearsal session, Dewey is informed that he has been fired from No Vacancy and replaced by another guitarist, Spider. While trying to sell some of his equipment, Dewey answers a phone call from Rosalie Mullins, the principal of the Horace Green prep school, inquiring for Ned about a short-term position as a substitute teacher. Desperate for money, Dewey impersonates Ned and is hired. On his first day at the school, Dewey, who does not know how to spell "Schneebly", adopts the name "Mr. S". His erratic behavior confounds the students.

After observing the students' talent in music class, Dewey devises a plan to form a new band to audition for Battle of the Bands. He casts Zack Mooneyham as lead guitarist, Freddy Jones as a drummer, cello player Katie on bass, pianist Lawrence on keyboards, and himself as lead vocalist and rhythm guitarist. He assigns the rest of the class to various roles of co-lead and backup singers, groupies and roadies, with overachiever Summer Hathaway as band manager. The project takes over normal lessons but helps the students embrace their talents and overcome their insecurities, as well as realize that rock and roll can help them stand up for themselves. Dewey reassures Lawrence, who is worried about not being cool enough for the band, Zack, whose overbearing father disapproves of rock, and Tomika, an overweight girl who is too self-conscious to audition for co-lead and backup singer despite having a powerful voice. "Groupies" Michelle and Eleni, with Summer's approval, name the band "The School of Rock".

Dewey sneaks the key band members out of school for the audition while the rest of the class stay behind to maintain cover. Despite the bill being full, the band is accepted after Summer tricks the staff into thinking that the kids are terminally ill. The next day, Rosalie decides to check on Dewey's teaching progress, forcing him to attempt to teach the students actual academic material. The day before Battle of the Bands, Ned receives a paycheck from the school via mail and realizes that Dewey impersonated him. During a night in which parents visit the school, they question Dewey's teaching methods. Ned, Patty and the police later arrive and confront him. When Rosalie appears, Dewey reveals his true identity and admits he is not a licensed teacher before fleeing. At home, a disappointed Ned reluctantly tells Dewey to leave in the morning.

The next morning, the parents angrily confront Rosalie at her office. Not wanting their hard work to go to waste, the kids sneak out of the school and direct a bus to take them to pick up Dewey. They drive to the competition, while back at the school, the new substitute discovers the kids are missing. Rosalie and the parents race to the competition. Meanwhile, Ned stands up to Patty and goes to Battle of the Bands. Backstage, Dewey proposes that they play a song Zack had written earlier. Immediately following No Vacancy, School of Rock plays Zack's song and wins over the crowd. Much to Dewey's disappointment, No Vacancy wins, but the audience is more impressed with School Of Rock, and demands an encore. Though initially upset at the deception, the parents admit to being impressed by the kids' talent and confidence on stage, with Rosalie even becoming ecstatic.

Some time later, an after-school program known as the School of Rock opens and Summer has obtained many offers for shows and record deals from the band. Dewey now has his own residence and works as a music coach for the students, while Ned has left Patty, and, having rediscovered his passion for rock music, teaches beginner students.

