In 1887, Lord Nelson Rathbone leads a band of Boxers into the Forbidden City, killing the Keeper of the Imperial Seal of China and stealing the seal. With his dying breath, the Keeper gives his daughter, Chon Lin, a puzzle box for her brother, Sheriff Chon Wang.

In Carson City, Nevada, Wang is now sheriff and has captured an impressive array of fugitives. He receives the box and a letter from Lin, telling him of their father's death and that she has tracked the murderer to London.

Wang travels to New York City to find his old partner Roy O'Bannon and collect his share of their gold so that he can buy passage to London. Roy has left law enforcement, broken off his marriage, invested all their gold in the Zeppelin, and is now a waiter and part-time gigolo. After an aborted attempt at prostitution to pay for tickets, the pair ship themselves to London in a crate.

In London, Roy's pocket is picked by a youth named Charlie. After a struggle between Roy, Wang, Charlie, and a gang angered by Charlie stealing on their turf, they are arrested. In Scotland Yard, Inspector Artie Doyle thanks the two for defeating the Fleet Street gang. When they ask about Lin, Artie shows them she is in custody, having attempted to kill Lord Rathbone. Roy is instantly smitten with Lin and gives her a deck of playing cards as a good luck charm. Wang and Roy reunite with Charlie, and he helps them break into a grand estate for shelter, where they obtain an invitation to a gala at Buckingham Palace.

Roy and Wang infiltrate the gala in disguise, Roy as Major General "Sherlock Holmes" (a name he derives from the face of a clock) and Wang as the "Maharaja of Nevada". Wang and Roy follow Rathbone to a private library, where he slips through a secret passage. Wang finds the seal box, but the seal itself is gone, and they are attacked by Boxer guards. Lin, having used Roy's playing cards to pick the lock on her cell, arrives and saves Roy. The three see Rathbone give the Imperial Seal to Wu Chow, the illegitimate brother of the Emperor of China. After a brief struggle, Charlie steals the seal. Rathbone and Wu Chow escape after the former sets the barn they were in on fire. Lin manages to escape, with Roy and Wang stealing Rathbone's car, later crashing it into Stonehenge. Rathbone fires Artie after suggesting that his "incompetence knows no bounds". Wang and Roy are picked up by Lin the next morning, and she takes them to Whitechapel.

At a brothel, Roy overhears Wang try to convince Lin that Roy is an unsuitable husband, even telling her of his gigolo history and suspected infertility. Wang soothes Roy's feelings of betrayal by treating him to a pillow fight with the brothel women. Wang, Roy, and Lin are found and captured by Rathbone, who reveals his plan: In exchange for the seal, Wu Chow will kill the British royal family and frame Lin. Rathbone, the tenth in line for the throne, will then become king. Awaiting death, Roy confesses he spent most of the fortune publishing novels such as ''Roy O'Bannon Vs. The Mummy'', in which he portrayed himself as a hero and Wang as a cowardly sidekick. The two reconcile and Wang says he will not stand between him and Lin. He frees himself and saves Roy.

Wang and Roy consult Artie about Charlie's location. Artie deduces from a hat he dropped that Charlie is at Madame Tussauds. They save him from the Boxers, but lose the seal after the three are forced to hand it over in exchange for Charlie's life, and are then captured by police. Charlie rescues them and reveals that his full name is Charlie Chaplin. They save the royal family from being assassinated by machine gun by Wu Chow, whom Lin kills with a rocket. The three pursue Rathbone to the top of Big Ben. Roy is thrown off, but hangs onto the clock face, while Wang is hopelessly outmatched at swordplay by Rathbone, who repeatedly spares his life to prolong their duel. Wang gives up on trying to outright defeat Rathbone, instead severing the support ropes for the platform they are on. Roy catches Wang as Rathbone falls to his death. Both soon jump after grabbing a portion of the Union Jack flag hanging below the clock face and landing safely inside the Queen's coach.

Roy, Wang, and Artie are knighted. Artie decides to become a writer, and asks Roy for permission to use the "Sherlock Holmes" name. Wang opens the box his father sent him to find a message reminding him of the importance of family. Roy proposes that he and Wang go to Hollywood to join the new motion picture industry. Charlie stows away in their carriage as they drive off.

