Conjoined twins Bob and Walt Tenor try to live as normally as possible. Outgoing and sociable Walt aspires to be a Hollywood actor, whereas Bob is shy and introverted.

The twins run Quikee Burger, a diner in Oak Bluffs on Martha's Vineyard, guaranteeing free meals if orders are not completed in three minutes, showing how skilled and in sync Bob and Walt are. Walt is comfortable interacting with women, but Bob is shyer. He has a long-distance relationship with pen pal May Fong from California, whom he has never met and hasn't told he is a conjoined twin.

Walt stars in a one man show, while Bob stays as much as possible in the background, as he has stage fright. As the play's successful, Walt follows his dream to Hollywood, persuading his hesitant brother to go along for the ride.

They rent an apartment in California and become friends with fellow aspiring actress April Mercedes. When she asks about their conjoinment, Walt explains they share a liver that is mostly Bob's. As surgical separation is risky for Walt, Bob would not consent to the surgery, even though Walt wanted it. It is also why Walt looks older than Bob.{{efn|name=WaltandBob|Greg Kinnear is seven years older than Matt Damon in real life.}}

Walt has difficulty finding acting work in Hollywood, and his agent, Morty O'Reilly, isn't helpful, offering at one point to get him a job in a pornographic film. Cher is upset that she is starring in a prime-time TV show called ''Honey and the Beaze''. Wanting out, she hires Walt as her co-star, certain it will get cancelled. The producers realize her scheme and foil it by going forward, compensating for Bob's presence by keeping him out of the camera frame and employing bluescreen effects. The show is a surprise hit and Walt becomes famous.

Walt arranges for May Fong to meet Bob without his consent. They develop a romantic relationship, though the twins' attempt to keep their conjoined nature a secret proves challenging, especially as Walt must accompany them everywhere, sometimes using creative solutions like disguising himself as a giant teddy bear. Eventually, when May discovers them in bed, she concludes they are a gay couple rather than brothers. Although Bob shows her they are indeed conjoined twins, shocked at the lie, she flees.

Morty informs the twins that word has leaked about Walt and Bob being conjoined. Rather than hide this, they embrace it, becoming huge celebrities, making commercials and appearing on ''The Tonight Show with Jay Leno''. While Walt enjoys this success, he knows that Bob is unhappy and misses May. Resolving that Bob needs to be independent to be happy, Walt demands they be surgically separated.

Bob refuses, so Walt acts wild and crazy. Drunk, he snatches a woman's purse and spends the night in jail for drunk driving. Although Walt was drinking, Bob has the hangover, as their shared liver is mostly his. Released the following morning, they fight and Bob agrees to the operation.

On the night before the surgery, May shows up, apologizing to Bob for running out. He informs her that they are getting separated; although she does not want them to, he says it is best. At the hospital, May and April wait until Ben Carson, a real-life neurosurgeon in a cameo, that the surgery was successful.<ref name=Griswold13Aug>{{cite news|work=Mediate|url=http://www.mediaite.com/online/watch-ben-carsons-cameo-in-2003-comedy-stuck-on-you/|title=WATCH: Ben Carson's Cameo in 2003 Comedy Stuck on You|date=August 13, 2015|access-date=November 15, 2015|first=Alex|last=Griswold}}</ref>

Bob and May, small-town people, move back to Oak Bluffs, but Bob finds the separation from Walt difficult, both practically and emotionally, and has difficulty doing things by himself they used to do together, such as maintain Quikee Burger's three-minute challenge or play hockey. Walt loses his job when ''Honey and the Beaze'' is canceled due to low ratings, and doesn't find more work. He is also emotionally devastated by Bob's absence. After a brief talk with Cher about what's best for him, he moves back to Oak Bluffs.

One year later, Walt and Bob are running the restaurant together, Bob and May have married and May is pregnant. The twins simulate their former conjoinment with Velcro clothing that attaches them. Walt finds creative fulfillment continuing in local plays, including a musical in which he and Meryl Streep play Bonnie and Clyde.

