Amidst a divorce, Yoshimi Matsubara struggles to rebuild her life. She rents a run-down apartment, enrolls her daughter Ikuko in a nearby kindergarten, and gets a job as a proofreader in a small publishing company. The ceiling of their apartment has a leak that continually worsens. Matsubara complains to the building superintendent to no avail. 

Yoshimi begins experiencing strange occurrences around the complex. A red bag reappears no matter how often she tries to dispose of it; she gets glimpses of a mysterious long-haired little girl. Several incidents remind her of the time she was abandoned as a child. She is regularly late to pick up Ikuko from school and is stressed when her ex-husband tries to take Ikuko. Yoshimi learns of Mitsuko Kawai, who went missing a year earlier, from a missing person photo of her with a yellow raincoat and red bag. The little girl used to live in the abandoned unit right above Yuoshimi's.

One day, Yoshimi finds Ikuko in the apartment upstairs, where the faucets have been left running and have flooded the entire unit. Her lawyer talks to the superintendent, who finally agrees to fix the issue. Afterwards, things seemingly return to normal but the red bag reappears. Yoshimi heads to the building roof and notices that the water tank was last opened and inspected over a year ago, shortly before Mitsuko was last seen. She has a vision and realizes that Mitsuko fell into the tank while trying to retrieve her red bag and drowned. Meanwhile, Mitsuko's ghost attempts to drown Ikuko in the bathtub.

Yoshimi rushes back to her apartment, grabs Ikuko, and flees from Mitsuko. However, as the elevator door closes, she sees that the figure pursuing her is in fact her own daughter – she is carrying Mitsuko. Mitsuko clings to Yoshimi, who realizes she won't go. With Ikuko watching tearfully, Yoshimi sacrifices herself to appease Mitsuko's spirit, who claims Yoshimi as her mother in a heavy torrent of water.

Ten years later, Ikuko, now a high schooler, revisits the now-abandoned block and notices that her old apartment looks oddly clean and lived-in. She sees Yoshimi, who looks exactly the same. Yoshimi apologizes that they cannot be together, and affirms that she is happy as long as Ikuko is alright. Mitsuko appears by her side and they disappear together.

