In Washington, D.C., Fin Shepard (Ian Ziering) attends an awards ceremony at the White House, where he is given the Presidential Medal of Freedom by the President for his heroic actions during the 2013 and 2014 sharknadoes. When a tropical depression approaches D.C, a sharknado forms and attacks and destroys the nation's capital, killing the Mayor of New York City, White House Chief of Staff, and multiple Secret Service agents. Fin and the President work together to defeat the sharks, and the sharknado eventually evaporates into thin air, rather than having been taken down by force like before.

Worried that his pregnant wife April (Tara Reid), who is attending Universal Orlando Resort with their daughter Claudia (Ryan Newman) and her mother May (Bo Derek), is in danger, Fin drives down the East Coast in order to reach Florida. En route, Fin encounters a "fognado", which is destroyed by his former employee Nova Clarke and her partner Lucas Stevens. Nova reveals that she and Lucas have been tracking sharknado activity ever since the events in 2013. Using a mobilized RV equipped with sharknado-destroying weapons, the two have been traveling the country destroying sharknadoes and saving lives.

Nova and Lucas realize that the numerous storms will soon combine into a massive sharknado wall that will destroy the entire East Coast. The trio drive down to the Charleston Air Force Base, where they acquire a fighter jet they'll use to get to Orlando. However, Lucas sacrifices himself in order to destroy an approaching sharknado. Nova and Fin destroy a sharknado approaching the Daytona International Speedway during the Coke Zero 400, causing their jet to crash land in the resort at Universal. There, a sharknado kills Claudia's friend Jess while Claudia and Billy, a random stranger Claudia befriended, escape and reunite with Claudia's family.

Fin, April, Nova, Claudia, Billy and May take shelter in the Universal Studios Globe at the entrance of the resort, which is carried away by a sharknado, injuring May. While she is taken to the hospital, the rest of the group escape Universal and seek the help of Fin's estranged father, former NASA colonel Gil Shepard. Fin approaches him at a diner and convinces him to help him with a risky plan to destroy the storm from space. The group reaches a NASA facility outside Cape Canaveral, where they plan to dissipate the storm by using a top-secret Space Shuttle to blow up large tanks of rocket fuel inside it.

Nova accidentally leaks to April that Fin is heading to space in the shuttle, causing her to confront him as he is getting ready to go on the flight. The sharknado wall hits the NASA facility just as takeoff is about to begin, killing Billy while he is fending off sharks with Claudia. Too late for April to return to the command center, she joins Fin and Colonel Shepard in their journey to space. Nova uses a fighter jet to create a hole in the sharknado wall, allowing the trio a clear entrance to the atmosphere. They launch into space where they detonate the external tank, but it fails to stop the wall of sharknadoes.

Colonel Shepard deploys "Plan B", activating a Reagan-era Strategic Defense Initiative satellite laser weapon, stranding himself in space since there is not enough fuel to propel all of them back to Earth. This time, the sharknadoes are destroyed, but the beam causes the sharks to propel into space, attacking the shuttle. Fin attempts to fight them off using an energy-beam chainsaw, but he and April are swallowed by two different sharks, which fall back down to earth. Fin and April emerge from the sharks unharmed, during which Fin discovers that April had given birth during the descent; Fin decides to name his son Gil.

As April recovers Fin's United States Astronaut Badge, a piece of the shuttle debris falls back down to Earth, seemingly crushing her to death.

