Paul works as a waiter for Julia who runs a catering company. They go to set up for a function at the Perch estate. The rural world of Mrs. Perch, a well-to-do elderly lady in New York, is all abuzz in anticipation of her annual garden party, a small but elaborate affair held in a villa at the remote estate where she resides with her son Sydney. Among the guests is the town mayor, Caruthers.

Unfortunately, thanks to an illegally imported plant fertilizer mixed with growth hormones which seeps into the ground, a local species of parasitic wasp mutates into significantly larger creatures. Mrs. Perch's upper-class celebrants, slowed by the evening's festivities, are the ideal prey. The wasps burrow inside the bodies of the guests to emerge as creatures seven feet long.

Paul and Julia have to try and figure out how to stop the giant wasps. They realize that the wasps reproduce through their stingers, also ovipositors, as juvenile wasps emerge from human hosts who are killed in the process.

Paul, Julia, Mayor Caruthers, Sydney, Mrs. Perch, and Flora (the cook) take refuge inside the house, barricading themselves in from the fierce attack. Following a car crash outside, the phone lines are dead, leaving the survivors cut off from the outside world. They decide to hide in the basement, but while they are there, it becomes clear that it is too late for Mrs. Perch, who has already been stung; a wasp bursts from her body, killing her. They all run into the hallway and close the door behind them, but the wasp thrusts its stinger through the door, impaling Flora through the back of her head as the stinger protrudes through her eye.

Paul, Julia, Mayor Caruthers, and Sydney escape to the wine cellar. They make a plan to escape using the catering van, but Paul has left his keys outside. He manages to retrieve the keys and kill a wasp. Sydney, however, has also been stung, and this time the emergent wasp controls its host until Paul and Julia subdue him.
	 
Paul, Julia, and Mayor Caruthers begin to creep around the house to find an exit. The three suddenly under attack, Mayor Caruthers sacrifices himself, allowing Paul and Julia to escape into another room. They kill an invading wasp and get outside, but Paul is taken by a wasp and flown to a nest, where he recognizes the queen that emerged from Mrs. Perch and which still controls Sydney, who attempts to force a wasp larva into Paul's mouth to incubate and grow. Julia appears and cuts Sydney in half with an electric saw, rescues Paul, and blows up the nest. As they drive away, a surviving wasp, its body on fire, attacks the car. Paul rams the car into a tree and kills the wasp, but the crash knocks him and Julia out.
	 
Paul wakes up and tries to wake Julia. Finally, she wakes up to the arrival of the authorities. They are placed in the back of an ambulance where they kiss and start to have sex. An officer wanting to question them closed the ambulance doors to allow them privacy. An officer approaches the front of the van where the queen wasp is pinned against the tree and just as he asks another officer "What do you think of this?", a cow's head falls from the sky crushing him to death. The officers and paramedics look up into the sky, the ambulance doors open allowing Julia and Paul to see wasp-cow hybrids flying overhead with a cow bell ringing. The camera cuts to black leaving the fate of humanity unknown.
 
thumb|[[Matt O'Leary]]

