At a university, medical researchers Dr. Frank Walton and his fiancée, Dr. Zoe McConnell, have developed a serum, code-named "Lazarus", intended to assist coma patients but shown to be able to actually bring the dead back to life. Videography student Eva joins them in the lab to document their project.

With the assistance of their lab associates, Niko and Clay, they run a successful trial on a recently euthanized dog, Rocky. However, Rocky displays several unusual psychological and physical phenomena after being revived by the serum: cataracts formerly present in his eyes abruptly dissolve, he loses his appetite, and he displays increased aggression. Tests reveal that the serum, instead of dissipating, is concentrated within Rocky's brain, where it is causing new synapses to be constructed.

When the dean of their university learns of their underground experiments, their project is shut down. They are also informed that a major pharmaceutical company has bought out the company that funded their research. The company confiscates everything associated with the project.

Frank and his team sneak back into their lab to duplicate the experiment so that they can prove that they created the serum. During this attempt, things go horribly wrong after Zoe is fatally electrocuted. Despite warnings from the others, a distraught Frank uses the serum to resurrect her. Initially, the procedure appears to be a success, but the team soon realizes that something is wrong with Zoe. She claims that when she died, she went to her version of Hell, which was a nightmare originating from her childhood: during a fire in her apartment building, she witnessed trapped neighbors burning to death. She also begins to demonstrate unusual psychic abilities as the serum begins to take effect.

They realize that the serum causes brains to "evolve" rapidly, giving Zoe superhuman abilities such as telekinesis and telepathy. It also causes increased aggression and insanity. Zoe eventually finds Eva and shows her the nightmarish Hell she experienced. It is revealed that Zoe was the one that caused the fire in the building, and she went to Hell when she died. Zoe kills Rocky and then attempts to seduce Niko, but after he refuses, she uses telekinesis to throw him into a locker and crush it with him inside, killing him. Using her new abilities, she cuts the power to the entire lab. When Clay demands to know where Niko is, she kills him by lodging an e-cigarette into his throat. Later, Zoe kills Frank after he attempts to inject her with poison. Zoe then injects herself with an entire bag of the serum, strengthening her abilities.

Eva, who is still alive and trying to locate Zoe to inject her, is left in the dark. Zoe eventually finds Eva, who is apparently able to escape and inject Zoe with the syringe, but it turns out to be an illusion; Zoe then kills Eva. Zoe then injects Frank with her own serum-saturated blood, successfully bringing him back from the dead.

