In 1979, following the death of their son Bobby in a car crash, Anne (Barbara Crampton) and Paul Sacchetti (Andrew Sensenig) have decided to move to a new home in rural New England. Paul hopes that it will be therapeutic for Anne, as the death has caused her to spiral into a deep depression. However, Anne starts claiming that Bobby is present in the house, and neighbor Cat McCabe warns them to leave. The house was built in the 1800s by the Dagmar family as a funeral home. The Dagmars were reportedly run out of the village after townspeople discovered that they were swindling their customers by selling the corpses and burying empty caskets.

Undeterred, Anne invites her friends May and Jacob Lewis (Lisa Marie and Larry Fessenden), as they are both spiritualists and could help contact Bobby. The couples go out to eat, during which time the Lewises' son Harry arrives with his girlfriend Daniella. Harry is killed by an apparition in the basement and Daniella flees in horror, only to be killed too. The Lewises and the Sacchettis head home, after which Cat's husband Dave arrives at the restaurant, murders a waitress, and angrily discusses the Dagmar house with the bartender, revealing that the house needs to feed every 30 years or the evil beneath it will search out fresh souls, destroying the town.

Jacob manages to convince a reluctant Paul to hold a séance with him while their wives are out. This ends with Jacob becoming possessed by the spirit of Lassander Dagmar, who reveals that they were never run out of town; rather the villagers used his family as a sacrifice to the evil under their home. Lassander, overcome with rage, causes Jacob to kill himself. His wife May tries to flee, only to be killed by Dave, who has come to the house with the other townspeople, determined to give the home what it wants. The Sacchettis hear the voice of Bobby urging them to leave, and flee upstairs as the townspeople break into the house.

The spirits of the Dagmar family proceed to violently murder most of the townspeople until only Dave, Paul, and Anne remain. Dave tries to kill Anne and Paul, but is killed by Lassander's spirit. As Paul and Anne stare at the carnage around them, the spirits of the family depart from the house, finally satisfied. Anne walks into the house's cellar after Bobby calls her, followed by Paul. As he peers down the stairs, Paul smiles and says "Hey Bobby."

