Ellie is pregnant, making Manny desperate to make life perfect and safe for both her and their upcoming child, not wanting them to meet the same fate as his previous wife and child{{Efn|as depicted in ''Ice Age''}}. However, this causes him to alienate Diego, who is contemplating leaving the herd as he feels like he's losing his edge as a hunter and isn't meant for family life, and Sid, who begins to wish for a family of his own. Sid discovers an underground icy cave, where he finds three apparently abandoned eggs, and decides to adopt them. Manny tells Sid to put the eggs back, but Sid ignores him and looks after them, which hatch into baby ''Tyrannosaurus'' the next morning. Meanwhile, Scrat becomes infatuated with a flying saber-tooth squirrel named Scratte, though she only wants his acorn.

Although Sid tries his best to raise the dinosaurs, their rambunctious behavior scares away all the younger animals, and they destroy the playground Manny built for his child, angering Manny. The mother ''Tyrannosaurus'' whose eggs Sid took arrives, looking for the eggs. When Sid refuses to return the babies, she carries both Sid and her children underground. Manny, Ellie, Diego, Crash, and Eddie follow them, and discover that the icy cave leads to a vast subterranean jungle populated by dinosaurs thought to be extinct. They are surrounded by dinosaurs, but saved by a deranged one-eyed least weasel named Buck.

Buck reveals that he's lived in the jungle for a long time and has been hunting down Rudy, a large and hostile albino ''Baryonyx'' feared by the inhabitants of the jungle. He agrees to lead the group through the jungle's perils to Lava Falls, where the mother dinosaur has taken Sid and her babies. Meanwhile, the mother ''Tyrannosaurus'' tries to get rid of Sid as revenge for stealing her children, but eventually, she slowly grows attached to him. The next day, however, Sid is separated from the ''Tyrannosaurus'' family and is attacked by Rudy. He outruns him, but gets stranded on a loose rock that is floating on a river of lava and about to plummet over the falls.

As the herd moves toward the lava falls, Ellie goes into labor and a pack of ''Guanlong'' attack them, causing a rock slide that separates her from the rest. Buck, Crash, and Eddie set out to rescue Sid while Manny and Diego stay behind to protect Ellie. Diego regains his edge by protecting Ellie from the ''Guanlong'' while also supporting her emotionally as she gives birth. Manny slows down the rest as he makes his way up to her.  

Meanwhile, just as Sid goes over the falls, Buck, Crash, and Eddie swoop in on a commandeered ''Harpactognathus'', narrowly saving Sid after escaping a pack of ''Quetzalcoatlus''. Manny reaches Ellie just in time to see his newborn daughter, and the couple agree to name the baby "Peaches". Sid is happy to reunite with his friends, but is sad that he never had a chance to say goodbye to the dinosaurs. 

Before they can leave the jungle, they are ambushed by Rudy. The herd is saved by the mother ''Tyrannosaurus'', who charges at Rudy and knocks him off a cliff. Sid then says goodbye to the dinosaurs. Buck, now without a purpose in life since Rudy is gone, decides to join the herd and live on the surface. However, a distant roar tells him that Rudy is still alive. Because of this, he changes his mind and sends the herd home, blocking off the path to the underground jungle at the same time. Manny and Ellie welcome Peaches into their frozen world, and Diego decides to remain with the herd, while Buck stays underground, having managed to tame Rudy. Scrat and Scratte decide to live in the jungle together, but Scrat ultimately chooses the acorn over her, causing a fight. Scrat is accidentally launched back to the surface, while Scratte falls back in the dinosaur world, making it her new home. Scrat once again loses the acorn after a large piece of ice knocks it out of his hands, much to his frustration.

