Don Champagne runs a successful furniture business. His detail-oriented wife Mona has everything planned according to the book of her goals. One day an attractive young woman named Dusty applies for a sales job at Don's store. After consulting with his partner Les, Don hires Dusty.

Don is desperate because of his poor sex life with his wife. Shortly, Dusty seduces him and they start having an affair. Later, Dusty shows up at the birthday party of Don and Mona's son Andrew, telling Don that she is pregnant and wants to keep the baby. Don is desperate, and Les advises him to pay Dusty money.

It is then revealed that Dusty is the abused girlfriend of a criminal motorcycle gang leader named Murphy, and is lying to Don about her pregnancy. Don offers Dusty $13,000 for her silence, which she refuses, telling Don it will not be enough. Don is unsure whether Dusty will keep her mouth shut, and Les advises Don to tell Mona the truth before hearing it from Dusty. Don confesses to Mona, and she demands that Don kill Dusty.

Murphy is not satisfied with the $13,000, so Dusty calls Don and demands $25,000. Don agrees, but he and Mona prepare to poison Dusty instead. Dusty shows up for the money and swallows the poisoned drink. Don and Mona put an unconscious Dusty in the car and take her home. Once home, Dusty wakes up, so Mona kills her with a hammer. Mona hacks Dusty's body into pieces, buries it in the garden, and reveals to Don that Dusty wasn't even pregnant.

With friends Freeman and Benji, Murphy discovers Dusty is missing, suspect something went wrong, so they attack Les. Murphy also threatens Don by leaving his son a letter, in which he demands a meeting at a strip club. Don meets Murphy and his gang and convinces them that Dusty went to Dallas. Murphy tells Don that she had his money and threatens to rape his family if he does not pay him $20,000 the next day.

Don and Mona dig up Dusty's corpse and go to the place where the gang lives. While Mona is trying to hide Dusty's body parts in the freezer, Freeman comes home with his girlfriend. Mona mortally wounds Freeman, stabs and kills his girlfriend, and shortly calls the police to report a disturbance at the house. Before dying, Freeman calls Murphy and tells him what happened. Murphy and Benji arrive and find Freeman and his girlfriend dead. Murphy also discovers parts of Dusty in the freezer and realizes he was set up. Soon the police arrive and find Murphy and Benji at the crime scene. The police shoot Benji while Murphy escapes. The police decided that Murphy and Benji were responsible for the murders.

While alone, Don asks Mona why she is so cold-blooded and if it was due to her upbringing. Mona threatens to kill him if he ever asks her that question again. The next day, Don finds the neighbor's dog dead in his freezer at a house party, and Mona displays very antisocial behavior with their guests. Terrified, Don stages an accident to kill Mona. After her death, Don and his children move to a new house and are seen in the driveway getting into a new car and driving away. The movie ends with Murphy going after their car. The screen turns black, and the end credits roll. Two shots are heard, followed by a prolonged honk and children's screams, implying that Murphy had killed Don.

